Madam, according as your Ladyship desired, By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 4)
Even like a man new-haled from the rack, So fare my limbs with long imprisonment; And these gray locks, the pursuivants of death, Nestor-like aged in an age of care, Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer; These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent, Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent; Weak shoulders, overborne with burdening grief, And pithless arms, like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground; Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb, Unable to support this lump of clay, Swift-winged with desire to get a grave, As witting no other comfort have.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 1)
Canst thou deny it? Did not Goodwife Keech, the butcher's wife, come in then and call me Gossip Quickly, coming in to borrow a mess of vinegar, telling us she had a good dish of prawns, whereby thou didst desire to eat some, whereby told thee they were ill for a green wound?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 42)
And didst thou not, when she was gone downstairs, desire me to be no more so familiarity with such poor people, saying that ere long they should call me madam?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 43)
say to you, do desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty employment in the King's affairs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 57)
Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 3)
Your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire, and your color, warrant you, is as red as any rose, in good truth, la.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 11)
Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 121)
Alas, good master, my wife desired some damsons, and made me climb, with danger of my life.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 51)
You have no employment for me?  None but to desire your good company.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 108)
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 0)
What means the fool, trow?  Nothing, but God send everyone their heart's desire.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 26)
An old man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, would desire they were, but, in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 4)
have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge, that may say in the default "He is a man know.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 94)
Only he desires Some private speech with you.  shall obey his will.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 22)
do not desire you to please me. do desire you to sing.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 5)
'Tis right.   It was his word. he would miss it rather Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him And the desire of the nobles.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 99)
Therefore please you, Most reverend and grave elders, to desire The present consul and last general In our well-found successes to report little of that worthy work performed By Martius Caius Coriolanus, whom We met here both to thank and to remember With honors like himself.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 13)
"  me, the gods! You must not speak of that. You must desire them To think upon you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 20)
Mine own desert.  Your own desert?  Ay, but not mine own desire.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 26)
How, not your own desire?  No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 27)
That is, sir, will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man and give it bountiful to the desirers.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 40)
mean not cuckold mad, But sure he is stark mad. When desired him to come home to dinner, He asked me for a thousand marks in gold.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 25)
Say, if my father render fair return, It is against my will, for desire Nothing but odds with England.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 31)
The King's attorney on the contrary Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions Of divers witnesses, which the Duke desired To him brought viva voce to his face; At which appeared against him his surveyor, Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car, Confessor to him, with that devil monk, Hopkins, that made this mischief.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 7)
chair, goes about the court, comes to the King,    Sir, desire you do me right and justice, And to bestow your pity on me; for am a most poor woman and a stranger, Born out of your dominions, having here No judge indifferent nor no more assurance Of equal friendship and proceeding.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 13)
When was the hour ever contradicted your desire, Or made it not mine too?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 16)
It shall be therefore bootless That longer you desire the court, as well For your own quiet as to rectify What is unsettled in the King.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 27)
But will you be more justified? You ever Have wished the sleeping of this business, never desired It to be stirred, but oft have hindered, oft, The passages made toward it.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 59)
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?   Most fair return of greetings and desires.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 20)
Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door, Who doth desire to see you.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 28)
Sweet health and fair desires consort your Grace.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 61)
Perchance light in the light. desire her name.   She hath but one for herself; to desire that were a shame.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 72)
"  Your reason?   Why, all his behaviors did make their retire To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 89)
good l'envoi, ending in the goose. Would you desire more?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 43)
It provokes the desire, but it takes away the performance.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 15)
Well, what's your suit?   There is a vice that most do abhor, And most desire should meet the blow of justice, For which would not plead, but that must; For which must not plead, but that am At war 'twixt will and will not.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 16)
You are too cold. If you should need a pin, You could not with more tame a tongue desire it.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 23)
Having waste ground enough, Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary And pitch our evils there?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 74)
Dost thou desire her foully for those things That make her good?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 76)
What, do love her That desire to hear her speak again And feast upon her eyes?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 78)
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 8)
True.   Admit no other way to save his life-- As subscribe not that, nor any other-- But, in the loss of question, that you, his sister, Finding yourself desired of such a person Whose credit with the judge, or own great place, Could fetch your brother from the manacles Of the all-binding law, and that there were No earthly mean to save him but that either You must lay down the treasures of your body To this supposed, or else to let him suffer, What would you do?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 35)
But if ever the Duke return, as our prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your answer before him.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 70)
But leave we him to his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous, and let me desire to know how you find Claudio prepared.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 112)
Out of this wood do not desire to go. Thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 59)
--I beseech your Worship's name.  Cobweb.  shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 68)
Good Master Peaseblossom, shall desire you of more acquaintance too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 71)
desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustardseed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 75)
Ay, by my life, And never did desire to see thee more.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 115)
My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will rest me till the break of day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 187)
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.  Truly, a peck of provender.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 11)
could munch your good dry oats. Methinks have a great desire to a bottle of hay.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 12)
See these letters delivered, put the liveries to making, and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 49)
Wouldst thou aught with me?  Here's my son, sir, a poor boy--  Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that would, sir, as my father shall specify--  He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--  Indeed, the short and the long is, serve the Jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify--  His master and he (saving your Worship's reverence) are scarce cater-cousins--  To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father being, hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--  have here a dish of doves that would bestow upon your Worship, and my suit is--  In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your Worship shall know by this honest old man, and though say it, though old man yet poor man, my father--  One speak for both.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 51)
desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone tonight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 29)
Now make your choice.   This first, of gold, who this inscription bears, "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire"; The second, silver, which this promise carries, "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves"; This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt, "Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 1)
What if strayed no farther, but chose here? Let's see once more this saying graved in gold: "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 14)
" Why, that's the lady! All the world desires her.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 15)
Ha, let me see: "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 10)
" What many men desire--that "many" may be meant By the fool multitude that choose by show, Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach, Which pries not to th' interior, but like the martlet Builds in the weather on the outward wall, Even in the force and road of casualty.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 11)
will not choose what many men desire, Because will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 12)
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house and desires to speak with you both.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 28)
-- Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus. have found great love amongst them.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 79)
So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 112)
What, man! 'Tis a night of revels. The gallants desire it.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 19)
Were my fortunes equal to my desires, could wish to make one there.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 43)
And furthermore tell him we desire to know of him Of whence he is, his name and parentage.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 30)
And further, he desires to know of you Of whence you are, your name and parentage.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 33)
Pericles shows the letter to Cleon. Pericles gives the Messenger a reward and knights    Good Helicane, that stayed at home-- Not to eat honey like a drone From others' labors, for though he strive To killen bad, keep good alive, And to fulfill his prince' desire-- Sends word of all that haps in Tyre: How Thaliard came full bent with sin, And had intent to murder him; And that in Tarsus was not best Longer for him to make his rest.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 7)
blessed labor, my most sovereign lord. Among this princely heap, if any here By false intelligence or wrong surmise Hold me a foe, If unwittingly, or in my rage, Have aught committed that is hardly borne By any in this presence, desire To reconcile me to his friendly peace.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 21)
'Tis death to me to be at enmity; hate it, and desire all good men's love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 22)
Stop there, stop there.  Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 38)
If you be he, sir, desire some confidence with you.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 51)
2        Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie, And young affection gapes to be his heir.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 0)
You must lay lime to tangle her desires By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 25)
Madam, though Venus govern your desires, Saturn is dominator over mine.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 7)
Why are you sequestered from all your train, Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed, And wandered hither to an obscure plot, Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor, If foul desire had not conducted you?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 22)
But when you have the honey you desire, Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 41)
Wherefore weep you?   At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer What desire to give, and much less take What shall die to want.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 32)
If you will not undo what you have done-- that is, kill him whom you have recovered--desire it not.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 18)
We are young and yet desire the ways of honor That liberty and common conversation, The poison of pure spirits, might like women Woo us to wander from.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 20)
And desire her?   Before my liberty.  saw her first.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 67)
He touched the ports desired, And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive, He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness Wrinkles Apollo's and makes pale the morning.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 24)
You love sack, and so do Would you desire better sympathy?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 4)
That were a trick indeed! But Mistress Page would desire you to send her your little page, of all loves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 46)
Good Master Brook, desire more acquaintance of you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 70)
Sir, hear you are a scholar--I will be brief with you--and you have been a man long known to me, though had never so good means as desire to make myself acquainted with you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 77)
Now, could come to her with any detection in my hand, my desires had instance and argument to commend themselves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 97)
most fehemently desire you, you will also look that way.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 2)
Why?  He has no more knowledge in Hibbocrates and Galen--and he is a knave besides, a cowardly knave as you would desires to be acquainted withal.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 25)
desire you in friendship, and will one way or other make you amends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 34)
This is well! He has made us his vloutingstog. desire you that we may be friends, and let us knog our prains together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging companion, the Host of the Garter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 48)
Your wife is as honest a 'omans as will desires among five thousand, and five hundred too.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 92)
If the rascal have not given me medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 9)
2       But, for mine own part, my lord, could be well contented to be there, in respect of the love bear your house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 0)
He could be contented; why is he not, then? In respect of the love he bears our house--he shows in this he loves his own barn better than he loves our house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 1)
what portents are these? Some heavy business hath my lord in hand, And must know it, else he loves me not.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 22)
What is it carries you away?  Why, my horse, my love, my horse.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 29)
fear my brother Mortimer doth stir About his title, and hath sent for you To line his enterprise; but if you go--   So far afoot, shall be weary, love.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 32)
Away! Away, you trifler. Love, love thee not. care not for thee, Kate.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 35)
Do you not love me? Do you not indeed? Well, do not then, for since you love me not, will not love myself.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 39)
Do you not love me? Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 40)
Come, wilt thou see me ride? And when am a-horseback will swear love thee infinitely.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 41)
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me.     Jesu, my lord the Prince--  How now, my lady the hostess, what sayst thou to me?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 116)
If thou love me, practice an answer.  Do thou stand for my father and examine me upon the particulars of my life.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 155)
If to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine are to be loved.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 198)
love no colors; and, without all color Of base insinuating flattery, pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 10)
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee, Against proud Somerset and William Pole Will upon thy party wear this rose.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 41)
But indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 6)
If they get ground and vantage of the King, Then join you with them like a rib of steel To make strength stronger; but, for all our loves, First let them try themselves.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 17)
-- Call him up, drawer.  "Cheater" call you him? will bar no honest man my house, nor no cheater, but do not love swaggering.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 49)
Ah, rogue, i' faith, love thee. Thou art as valorous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the Nine Worthies.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 107)
Why does the Prince love him so then?  Because their legs are both of a bigness, and he plays at quoits well, and eats conger and fennel, and drinks off candles' ends for flap-dragons, and rides the wild mare with the boys, and jumps upon joint stools, and swears with a good grace, and wears his boots very smooth like unto the sign of the Leg, and breeds no bate with telling of discreet stories, and such other gambol faculties he has that show a weak mind and an able body, for the which the Prince admits him; for the Prince himself is such another.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 117)
am old, am old.  love thee better than love e'er a scurvy young boy of them all.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 125)
dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall in love with thee; in which doing, have done the part of a careful friend and a true subject, and thy father is to give me thanks for it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 147)
No marvel, an it like your Majesty, My Lord Protector's hawks do tower so well; They know their master loves to be aloft And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 4)
Madam, for myself, to heaven do appeal How have loved my king and commonweal; And, for my wife, know not how it stands.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 86)
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved Than when thou wert Protector to thy king.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 10)
How well resembles it the prime of youth, Trimmed like a younker, prancing to his love!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 6)
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave speak it, You love the breeder better than the male.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 13)
know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not. 'Tis love bear thy glories make me speak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 42)
Ah, what a life were this! How sweet, how lovely!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 8)
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter; Not that fear to stay, but love to go Whither the Queen intends.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 42)
My love and fear glued many friends to thee; And now fall, thy tough commixtures melts, Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 2)
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.   Thou didst love York, and am son to York.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 25)
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.  Speak low if you speak love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 37)
Which is one?  say my prayers aloud.  love you the better; the hearers may cry "Amen.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 39)
You know me well. am he.  Signior, you are very near my brother in his love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 63)
How know you he loves her?  heard him swear his affection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 66)
'Tis certain so. The Prince woos for himself. Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 69)
Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 70)
God, sir, here's a dish love not! cannot endure my Lady Tongue.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 109)
Time goes on crutches till love have all his rites.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 147)
will teach you how to humor your cousin that she shall fall in love with Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 156)
-- And with your two helps, will so practice on Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 157)
If we can do this, Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are the only love gods.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 158)
Tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as in love of your brother's honor, who hath made this match, and his friend's reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid, that you have discovered thus.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 11)
do much wonder that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at such shallow follies in others, become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love--and such a man is Claudio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 3)
will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster, but I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster of me, he shall never make me such a fool.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 7)
pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.   Because you talk of wooing, will sing, Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy, yet he woos, Yet will he swear he loves.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 17)
What was it you told me of today, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 33)
ay.  Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.--I did never think that lady would have loved any man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 34)
Is 't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?  By my troth, my lord, cannot tell what to think of it, but that she loves him with an enraged affection, it is past the infinite of thought.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 36)
'Tis true indeed, so your daughter says. "Shall says she, "that have so oft encountered him with scorn, write to him that love him?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 48)
measure him," says she, "by my own spirit, for should flout him if he writ to me, yea, though love him, should.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 53)
Were it good, think you?  Hero thinks surely she will die, for she says she will die if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known, and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 64)
She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it, for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 65)
Well, am sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of her love?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 72)
Let it cool the while. love Benedick well, and could wish he would modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 76)
Why, it must be requited! hear how am censured. They say will bear myself proudly if perceive the love come from her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 84)
And virtuous; 'tis so, cannot reprove it. And wise, but for loving me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of her folly, for will be horribly in love with her!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 88)
man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 90)
do spy some marks of love in her.     Against my will, am sent to bid you come in to dinner.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 94)
" If do not take pity of her, am a villain; if do not love her, am a Jew.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 102)
My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 7)
But are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 14)
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it, But persuaded them, if they loved Benedick, To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 16)
god of love! know he doth deserve As much as may be yielded to a man, But Nature never framed a woman's heart Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 18)
She cannot love, Nor take no shape nor project of affection, She is so self-endeared.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 20)
Sure, think so, And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 21)
And Benedick, love on; will requite thee, Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 42)
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 43)
hope he be in love.  Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 7)
Yet say he is in love.  There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises, as to be a Dutchman today, a Frenchman tomorrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 12)
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 14)
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 19)
Conclude, conclude, he is in love.  Nay, but know who loves him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 23)
You may think love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that now will manifest.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 36)
If you love her then, tomorrow wed her. But it would better fit your honor to change your mind.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 43)
Clap 's into "Light o' love." That goes without a burden.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 19)
Do you sing it, and I'll dance it.  You light o' love with your heels!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 20)
These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent perfume.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 27)
You may think perchance that think you are in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 36)
Nay, by 'r Lady, am not such a fool to think what list, nor list not to think what can, nor indeed cannot think, if would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 37)
shall do well. The people love me, and the sea is mine; My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope Says it will come to th' full.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 4)
Caesar gets money where He loses hearts. Lepidus flatters both, Of both is flattered; but he neither loves, Nor either cares for him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 6)
But all the charms of love, Salt Cleopatra, soften thy wanned lip!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 10)
Worthily spoken, Maecenas.  Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant, you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 40)
Her love to both Would each to other and all loves to both Draw after her.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 53)
Let me have thy hand. Further this act of grace; and from this hour The heart of brothers govern in our loves And sway our great designs.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 59)
There's my hand.  sister bequeath you whom no brother Did ever love so dearly.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 60)
Let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never Fly off our loves again.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 61)
The poop was beaten gold, Purple the sails, and so perfumed that The winds were lovesick with them.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 81)
2        Give me some music--music, moody food Of us that trade in love.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 0)
Sir, never loved you much, but ha' praised you When you have well deserved ten times as much As have said you did.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 28)
think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 47)
have seen a medicine That's able to breathe life into a stone, Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary With sprightly fire and motion, whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pippen, nay, To give great Charlemagne a pen in 's hand And write to her a love line.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 34)
More, more, a hundred of them.  Sir, am a poor friend of yours that loves you.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 15)
"  Make choice and see. Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 27)
Love make your fortunes twenty times above Her that so wishes, and her humble love.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 32)
cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.   Thou wrong'st thyself if thou shouldst strive to choose.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 63)
--Here, take her hand, Proud, scornful boy, unworthy this good gift, That dost in vile misprision shackle up My love and her desert; that canst not dream We, poising us in her defective scale, Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know It is in us to plant thine honor where We please to have it grow.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 66)
As thou lov'st her Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 74)
The great prerogative and rite of love, Which as your due time claims, he does acknowledge But puts it off to a compelled restraint, Whose want and whose delay is strewed with sweets, Which they distill now in the curbed time To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy And pleasure drown the brim.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 15)
The brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and begin to love as an old man loves money, with no stomach.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 6)
Show me the place. love to cope him in these sullen fits, For then he's full of matter.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 20)
Why, what make you here? Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 1)
Corin, that thou knew'st how do love her!   partly guess, for have loved ere now.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 8)
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess, Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sighed upon a midnight pillow.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 9)
But if thy love were ever like to mine-- As sure think did never man love so-- How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 10)
Into a thousand that have forgotten.   thou didst then never love so heartily.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 11)
If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 12)
Or if thou hast not sat as do now, Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 13)
Or if thou hast not broke from company Abruptly, as my passion now makes me, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 14)
And mine. remember when was in love broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a-night to Jane Smile; and remember the kissing of her batler, and the cow's dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked; and remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom took two cods and, giving her them again, said with weeping tears "Wear these for my sake.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 16)
" We that are true lovers run into strange capers.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 17)
But as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 18)
And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.   prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment, Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 25)
Song.   Under the greenwood tree Who loves to lie with me And turn his merry note Unto the sweet bird's throat, Come hither, come hither, come hither.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 0)
Come, warble, come.  Song.    Who doth ambition shun And loves to live i' th' sun, Seeking the food he eats And pleased with what he gets, Come hither, come hither, come hither.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 16)
There is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limped in pure love.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 45)
And then the lover, Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad Made to his mistress' eyebrow.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 54)
am the duke That loved your father. The residue of your fortune Go to my cave and tell me.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 72)
Good or bad?  Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Martius.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 1)
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.  Pray you, who does the wolf love?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 2)
Menenius, you are known well enough, too.  am known to be a humorous patrician and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in 't; said to be something imperfect in favoring the first complaint, hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 18)
Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches. For the love of Juno, let's go!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 36)
'Tis thought That Martius shall be consul. have seen The dumb men throng to see him, and the blind To hear him speak; matrons flung gloves, Ladies and maids their scarves and handkerchiefs, Upon him as he passed; the nobles bended As to Jove's statue, and the Commons made shower and thunder with their caps and shouts.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 106)
That's a brave fellow, but he's vengeance proud and loves not the common people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 2)
'Faith, there hath been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them; and there be many that they have loved they know not wherefore; so that, if they love they know not why, they hate upon no better a ground.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 3)
Therefore, for Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their disposition and, out of his noble carelessness, lets them plainly see 't.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 4)
If he did not care whether he had their love or no, he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm; but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can render it him and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover him their opposite.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 5)
Now, to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he dislikes, to flatter them for their love.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 6)
He loves your people, But tie him not to be their bedfellow.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 20)
You soothed not, therefore hurt not; but your people, love them as they weigh.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 26)
You have not indeed loved the common people.  You should account me the more virtuous that have not been common in my love.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 37)
He has our voices, sir.   We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 66)
You should have said That as his worthy deeds did claim no less Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature Would think upon you for your voices, and Translate his malice towards you into love, Standing your friendly lord.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 79)
Did you perceive He did solicit you in free contempt When he did need your loves, and do you think That his contempt shall not be bruising to you When he hath power to crush?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 82)
Enforce his pride And his old hate unto you. Besides, forget not With what contempt he wore the humble weed, How in his suit he scorned you; but your loves, Thinking upon his services, took from you Th' apprehension of his present portance, Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion After the inveterate hate he bears you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 89)
Still swear love you.   If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 40)
In these feared hopes barely gratify your love; they failing, must die much your debtor.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 2)
Let there be no honor Where there is beauty, truth where semblance, love Where there's another man.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 42)
Ere learn love, I'll practice to obey.   How if your husband start some otherwhere?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 11)
Sister, you know he promised me a chain. Would that alone o' love he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 49)
As you love strokes, so jest with me again. You know no Centaur?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 3)
Because that familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love And make a common of my serious hours.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 13)
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me! For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall drop of water in the breaking gulf, And take unmingled thence that drop again Without addition or diminishing, As take from me thyself and not me too.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 52)
Shall, Antipholus, Even in the spring of love thy love-springs rot?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 1)
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous? If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 2)
Or if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth -- Muffle your false love with some show of blindness.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 3)
Alas, poor women, make us but believe, Being compact of credit, that you love us.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 10)
Let love, being light, be drowned if she sink.   What, are you mad that you do reason so?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 21)
As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.   Why call you me "love"?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 24)
Thee will love, and with thee lead my life; Thou hast no husband yet, nor no wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 28)
Never was monarch better feared and loved Than is your Majesty.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 19)
Alas, your too much love and care of me Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 29)
My Lord of Cambridge here, You know how apt our love was to accord To furnish him with all appurtenants Belonging to his honor, and this man Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired And sworn unto the practices of France To kill us here in Hampton; to the which This knight, no less for bounty bound to us Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 45)
--My love, give me thy lips. Look to my chattels and my movables.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 22)
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin As self-neglecting.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 21)
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming, In thunder and in earthquake like a Jove, That, if requiring fail, he will compel, And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord, Deliver up the crown and to take mercy On the poor souls for whom this hungry war Opens his vasty jaws, and on your head Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries, The dead men's blood, the prived maidens' groans, For husbands, fathers, and betrothed lovers That shall be swallowed in this controversy.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 25)
This duke as much They love and dote on, call him bounteous Buckingham, The mirror of all courtesy.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 20)
You few that loved me And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham, His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave Is only bitter to him, only dying, Go with me like good angels to my end, And as the long divorce of steel falls on me, Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice, And lift my soul to heaven.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 30)
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be; And when old Time shall lead him to his end, Goodness and he fill up one monument!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 38)
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most-- most unnatural and faithless service.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 49)
Heaven has an end in all; yet, you that hear me, This from a dying man receive as certain: Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends And give your hearts to, when they once perceive The least rub in your fortunes, fall away Like water from you, never found again But where they mean to sink you.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 50)
And out of all these to restore the King, He counsels a divorce, a loss of her That like a jewel has hung twenty years About his neck, yet never lost her luster; Of her that loves him with that excellence That angels love good men with; even of her That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls, Will bless the King.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 12)
For me, my lords, love him not nor fear him; there's my creed.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 19)
And once more in mine arms bid him welcome, And thank the holy conclave for their loves.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 43)
Your Grace must needs deserve all strangers' loves, You are so noble.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 45)
Where's Gardiner?   know your Majesty has always loved her So dear in heart not to deny her that woman of less place might ask by law: Scholars allowed freely to argue for her.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 48)
Or which of your friends Have not strove to love, although knew He were mine enemy?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 17)
If, in the course And process of this time, you can report, And prove it too, against mine honor aught, My bond to wedlock or my love and duty Against your sacred person, in God's name Turn me away and let the foul'st contempt Shut door upon me, and so give me up To the sharp'st kind of justice.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 20)
My learned and well-beloved servant Cranmer, Prithee return.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 81)
Mad for thy love?  My lord, do not know, But truly do fear it.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 29)
Come, go with me. will go seek the King. This is the very ecstasy of love, Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passions under heaven That does afflict our natures.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 34)
Come, go we to the King. This must be known, which, being kept close, might move More grief to hide than hate to utter love.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 40)
will be faithful.  Doubt thou the stars are fire, Doubt that the sun doth move, Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt love.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 38)
dear Ophelia, am ill at these numbers. have not art to reckon my groans, but that love thee best, most best, believe it.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 39)
But how hath she received his love?  What do you think of me?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 42)
But what might you think, When had seen this hot love on the wing (As perceived it, must tell you that, Before my daughter told me), what might you, Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think, If had played the desk or table-book Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, Or looked upon this love with idle sight?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 44)
If he love her not, And be not from his reason fall'n thereon, Let me be no assistant for a state, But keep a farm and carters.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 53)
He is far gone. And truly, in my youth, suffered much extremity for love, very near this.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 64)
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a better proposer can charge you withal: be even and direct with me whether you were sent for or no.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 103)
What say you?  Nay, then, have an eye of you.--If you love me, hold not off.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 104)
The adventurous knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt for 't.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 114)
What a treasure had he, my lord?  Why, One fair daughter, and no more, The which he loved passing well.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 149)
If you call me "Jephthah," my lord: have a daughter that love passing well.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 151)
One speech in 't chiefly loved. 'Twas Aeneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it especially when he speaks of Priam's slaughter.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 165)
Decius, well urged. think it is not meet Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar, Should outlive Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 56)
Yet fear him, For in the engrafted love he bears to Caesar--   Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 66)
If he love Caesar, all that he can do Is to himself: take thought and die for Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 67)
Never fear that. If he be so resolved, can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betrayed with trees, And bears with glasses, elephants with holes, Lions with toils, and men with flatterers.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 73)
He loves me well, and have given him reasons. Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 79)
And upon my knees charm you, by my once commended beauty, By all your vows of love, and that great vow Which did incorporate and make us one, That you unfold to me, your self, your half, Why you are heavy, and what men tonight Have had resort to you; for here have been Some six or seven who did hide their faces Even from darkness.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 100)
But for your private satisfaction, Because love you, will let you know.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 35)
Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this, And reason to my love is liable.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 45)
Decius Brutus loves thee not. Thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 1)
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover, Artemidorus Here will stand till Caesar pass along, And as a suitor will give him this.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 4)
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.   God shall forgive you Coeur de Lion's death The rather that you give his offspring life, Shadowing their right under your wings of war.(King John, Act 0, Scene 3)
give you welcome with a powerless hand But with a heart full of unstained love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 4)
Who would not do thee right?   Upon thy cheek lay this zealous kiss As seal to this indenture of my love: That to my home will no more return Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France, Together with that pale, that white-faced shore, Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides And coops from other lands her islanders, Even till that England, hedged in with the main, That water-walled bulwark, still secure And confident from foreign purposes, Even till that utmost corner of the West Salute thee for her king.(King John, Act 0, Scene 6)
take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks, Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength To make a more requital to your love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 8)
England we love, and for that England's sake With burden of our armor here we sweat.(King John, Act 0, Scene 29)
do defy thee, France.-- Arthur of Brittany, yield thee to my hand, And out of my dear love I'll give thee more Than e'er the coward hand of France can win.(King John, Act 0, Scene 56)
Look upon the years Of Louis the Dauphin and that lovely maid.(King John, Act 0, Scene 143)
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty, Where should he find it fairer than in Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 144)
If zealous love should go in search of virtue, Where should he find it purer than in Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 145)
If love ambitious sought a match of birth, Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 146)
What say you?   If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son, Can in this book of beauty read love," Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen.(King John, Act 0, Scene 165)
do protest never loved myself Till now infixed beheld myself Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.(King John, Act 0, Scene 168)
He doth espy Himself love's traitor. This is pity now, That hanged and drawn and quartered there should be In such a love so vile a lout as he.(King John, Act 0, Scene 170)
Or if you will, to speak more properly, will enforce it eas'ly to my love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 172)
Further will not flatter you, my lord, That all see in you is worthy love, Than this: that nothing do see in you, Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge, That can find should merit any hate.(King John, Act 0, Scene 173)
Speak then, Prince Dauphin. Can you love this lady?(King John, Act 0, Scene 176)
Nay, ask me if can refrain from love, For do love her most unfeignedly.(King John, Act 0, Scene 177)
The young Dumaine, a well-accomplished youth, Of all that virtue love for virtue loved.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 19)
God bless my ladies, are they all in love, That every one her own hath garnished With such bedecking ornaments of praise?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 25)
Fair fall the face it covers.  And send you many lovers.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 47)
With what?   With that which we lovers entitle "affected.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 88)
Thou art an old lovemonger and speakest skillfully.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 97)
must employ him in a letter to my love.  Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 3)
How meanest thou? Brawling in French?  No, my complete master, but to jig off a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humor it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and sing a note, sometimes through the throat as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometimes through the nose as if you snuffed up love by smelling love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in your pocket like a man after the old painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 4)
"  Call'st thou my love "hobby-horse"?  No, master.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 8)
The hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love perhaps a hackney.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 9)
--But have you forgot your love?  Almost had.  Negligent student, learn her by heart.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 10)
man, if live; and this "by, in, and without," upon the instant: "by" heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by her; "in" heart you love her, because your heart is in love with her; and "out" of heart you love her, being out of heart that you cannot enjoy her.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 13)
Remuneration!   And forsooth in love! that have been love's whip, very beadle to a humorous sigh, critic, nay, a nightwatch constable, domineering pedant o'er the boy, Than whom no mortal so magnificent.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 82)
This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy, This Signior Junior, giant dwarf, Dan Cupid, Regent of love rhymes, lord of folded arms, Th' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers and malcontents, Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces, Sole imperator and great general Of trotting paritors--O my little heart!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 83)
What? love, sue, seek a wife? woman, that is like a German clock, Still a-repairing, ever out of frame, And never going aright, being a watch, But being watched that it may still go right.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 85)
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all. And, among three, to love the worst of all, whitely wanton with a velvet brow, With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 86)
Well, will love, write, sigh, pray, sue, groan. Some men must love my lady, and some Joan.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 90)
By heaven, that thou art fair is most infallible, true that thou art beauteous, truth itself that thou art lovely.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 30)
Shall command thy love? may. Shall enforce thy love?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 41)
could. Shall entreat thy love? will. What shalt thou exchange for rags?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 42)
love thee not.  Why then, care not for thee.  If had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, would make thee care for me.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 2)
are you free? Some other time for that.--Beloved Regan, Thy sister's naught.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 55)
Who comes here? heavens, If you do love old men, if your sweet sway Allow obedience, if you yourselves are old, Make it your cause.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 83)
I'll go with thee. Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty, And thou art twice her love.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 116)
No man. Th' expedition of my violent love Outrun the pauser, reason.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 53)
Who could refrain That had a heart to love, and in that heart Courage to make 's love known?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 55)
What, do love her That desire to hear her speak again And feast upon her eyes?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 78)
Yes, as love the woman that wronged him.   So then it seems your most offenseful act Was mutually committed?(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 9)
do confess it and repent it, father.   'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent As that the sin hath brought you to this shame, Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven, Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it, But as we stand in fear--   do repent me as it is an evil, And take the shame with joy.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 11)
injurious love That respites me a life, whose very comfort Is still a dying horror.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 14)
And even so The general subject to a well-wished king Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love Must needs appear offense.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 11)
something do excuse the thing hate For his advantage that dearly love.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 43)
Plainly conceive love you.  My brother did love Juliet, And you tell me that he shall die for 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 52)
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.   know your virtue hath a license in 't Which seems a little fouler than it is To pluck on others.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 53)
Let me ask my sister pardon. am so out of love with life that will sue to be rid of it.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 67)
Therefore, fasten your ear on my advisings. To the love have in doing good, a remedy presents itself.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 79)
There she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage dowry; with both, her combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 87)
His unjust unkindness, that in all reason should have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current, made it more violent and unruly.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 93)
Sir, know him, and love him.  Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer love.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 68)
The King doth keep his revels here tonight. Take heed the Queen come not within his sight, For Oberon is passing fell and wrath Because that she, as her attendant, hath lovely boy stolen from an Indian king; She never had so sweet a changeling.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 5)
But she perforce withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 7)
But know When thou hast stolen away from Fairyland And in the shape of Corin sat all day Playing on pipes of corn and versing love To amorous Phillida.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 21)
Why art thou here, Come from the farthest steep of India, But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskined mistress and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 22)
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Knowing know thy love to Theseus?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 23)
certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west, And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 47)
Yet marked where the bolt of Cupid fell. It fell upon a little western flower, Before, milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call it "love-in-idleness.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 49)
The next thing then she, waking, looks upon (Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape) She shall pursue it with the soul of love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 55)
love thee not; therefore pursue me not. Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 58)
Do entice you? Do speak you fair? Or rather do not in plainest truth Tell you do not, nor cannot love you?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 63)
And even for that do love you the more. am your spaniel, and, Demetrius, The more you beat me will fawn on you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 64)
What worser place can beg in your love (And yet a place of high respect with me) Than to be used as you use your dog?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 66)
And am sick when look not on you.   You do impeach your modesty too much To leave the city and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not, To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 68)
We cannot fight for love as men may do. We should be wooed and were not made to woo.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 79)
I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell To die upon the hand love so well.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 80)
Fare thee well, nymph. Ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 81)
sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 88)
Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 91)
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby. Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 5)
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby. Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 9)
One aloof stand sentinel.       What thou seest when thou dost wake Do it for thy true love take.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 11)
Wake when some vile thing is near.      Fair love, you faint with wand'ring in the wood.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 13)
Love takes the meaning in love's conference. mean that my heart unto yours is knit, So that but one heart we can make of it; Two bosoms interchained with an oath-- So then two bosoms and a single troth.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 19)
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy, Lie further off in human modesty.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 22)
So far be distant; and good night, sweet friend. Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 24)
Through the forest have gone, But Athenian found none On whose eyes might approve This flower's force in stirring love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 27)
Pretty soul, she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 31)
When thou wak'st, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 33)
Do not say so. Lysander, say not so. What though he love your Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 47)
Lord, what though? Yet Hermia still loves you. Then be content.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 48)
Not Hermia, but Helena love. Who will not change a raven for a dove?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 50)
And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will And leads me to your eyes, where o'erlook Love's stories written in love's richest book.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 53)
And, all my powers, address your love and might To honor Helen and to be her knight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 61)
Speak, of all loves! swoon almost with fear.-- No?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 67)
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue, Of color like the red rose on triumphant brier, Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew, As true as truest horse, that yet would never tire.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 34)
pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again. Mine ear is much enamored of thy note, So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape, And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me On the first view to say, to swear, love thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 53)
And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together nowadays.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 55)
am a spirit of no common rate. The summer still doth tend upon my state, And do love thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 60)
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs And light them at the fiery glowworms' eyes To have my love to bed and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 65)
My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 2)
When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 9)
This falls out better than could devise. But hast thou yet latched the Athenian's eyes With the love juice, as did bid thee do?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 10)
why rebuke you him that loves you so? Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 13)
What hast thou done? Thou hast mistaken quite And laid the love juice on some true-love's sight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 33)
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true-love turned, and not a false turned true.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 34)
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer With sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 37)
When his love he doth espy, Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 41)
Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand, And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 43)
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.   Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 55)
To what, my love, shall compare thine eyne? Crystal is muddy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 56)
You both are rivals and love Hermia, And now both rivals to mock Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 64)
You are unkind, Demetrius. Be not so, For you love Hermia; this you know know.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 67)
And here with all goodwill, with all my heart, In Hermia's love yield you up my part.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 68)
And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom do love and will do till my death.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 69)
will none. If e'er loved her, all that love is gone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 71)
Look where thy love comes. Yonder is thy dear.      Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes; Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, It pays the hearing double recompense.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 74)
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?   Why should he stay whom love doth press to go?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 76)
What love could press Lysander from my side?   Lysander's love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 77)
So we grew together Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition, Two lovely berries molded on one stem; So with two seeming bodies but one heart, Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one, and crowned with one crest.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 84)
And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 85)
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face, And made your other love, Demetrius, Who even but now did spurn me with his foot, To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare, Precious, celestial?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 88)
Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? And wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love (so rich within his soul) And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 89)
What though be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most, to love unloved?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 90)
Stay, gentle Helena. Hear my excuse, My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 95)
-- Helen, love thee. By my life, do. swear by that which will lose for thee, To prove him false that says love thee not.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 98)
say love thee more than he can do.   If thou say so, withdraw and prove it too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 99)
Why are you grown so rude? What change is this, Sweet love?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 104)
Thy love? Out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed med'cine!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 105)
Hate me? Wherefore? me, what news, my love? Am not Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 111)
Since night you loved me; yet since night you left me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 113)
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt. Be certain, nothing truer, 'tis no jest That do hate thee and love Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 116)
me!  You juggler, you cankerblossom, You thief of love!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 117)
What, have you come by night And stol'n my love's heart from him?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 118)
evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wronged you-- Save that, in love unto Demetrius, told him of your stealth unto this wood.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 130)
He followed you; for love, followed him. But he hath chid me hence and threatened me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 131)
For if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 142)
Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight. Hie, therefore, Robin, overcast the night; The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron, And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another's way.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 152)
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend, With league whose date till death shall never end.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 157)
But we are spirits of another sort. with the Morning's love have oft made sport And, like a forester, the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt-green streams.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 162)
I'll apply To your eye, Gentle lover, remedy.    When thou wak'st, Thou tak'st True delight In the sight Of thy former lady's eye.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 189)
What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 9)
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.  Truly, a peck of provender.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 11)
how love thee! How dote on thee!       Welcome, good Robin.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 17)
Methought was enamored of an ass.   There lies your love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 27)
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 33)
Go, one of you, find out the Forester. For now our observation is performed, And, since we have the vaward of the day, My love shall hear the music of my hounds.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 38)
But, my good lord, wot not by what power (But by some power it is) my love to Hermia, Melted as the snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood did dote upon, And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 62)
But, as in health, come to my natural taste, Now do wish it, love it, long for it, And will forevermore be true to it.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 64)
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met. Of this discourse we more will hear anon.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 65)
Bring me the fairest creature northward born, Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles, And let us make incision for your love To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 1)
tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine Hath feared the valiant; by my love swear The best regarded virgins of our clime Have loved it too.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 2)
There are my keys.--But wherefore should go? am not bid for love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 6)
His hour is almost past.   And it is marvel he outdwells his hour, For lovers ever run before the clock.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 1)
ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love's bonds new-made than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 2)
Lorenzo, and thy love.   Lorenzo certain, and my love indeed, For who love so much?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 11)
But love is blind, and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit, For if they could, Cupid himself would blush To see me thus transformed to a boy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 16)
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love, And should be obscured.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 19)
So are you, sweet, Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 20)
Now, by my hood, a gentle and no Jew!   Beshrew me but love her heartily, For she is wise, if can judge of her, And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true, And true she is, as she hath proved herself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 23)
As much as deserve--why, that's the lady! do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes, In graces, and in qualities of breeding, But more than these, in love do deserve.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 13)
He answered "Do not so. Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio, But stay the very riping of the time; And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me, Let it not enter in your mind of love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 15)
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts To courtship and such fair ostents of love As shall conveniently become you there.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 16)
think he only loves the world for him. pray thee, let us go and find him out And quicken his embraced heaviness With some delight or other.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 18)
Here. What would my lord?   Madam, there is alighted at your gate young Venetian, one that comes before To signify th' approaching of his lord, From whom he bringeth sensible regreets; To wit (besides commends and courteous breath), Gifts of rich value; yet have not seen So likely an ambassador of love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 38)
There's something tells me (but it is not love) would not lose you, and you know yourself Hate counsels not in such a quality.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 1)
Then confess What treason there is mingled with your love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 10)
None but that ugly treason of mistrust, Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 11)
There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 12)
"Confess and love" Had been the very sum of my confession.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 15)
am locked in one of them. If you do love me, you will find me out.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 18)
Now he goes, With no less presence but with much more love Than young Alcides when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea-monster.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 24)
love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy, In measure rain thy joy, scant this excess!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 42)
give them with this ring,  Which, when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the ruin of your love, And be my vantage to exclaim on you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 61)
Madam, you have bereft me of all words. Only my blood speaks to you in my veins, And there is such confusion in my powers As after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude, Where every something being blent together Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy Expressed and not expressed.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 62)
You loved, loved; for intermission No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 69)
For wooing here until sweat again, And swearing till my very roof was dry With oaths of love, at last (if promise last) got a promise of this fair one here To have her love, provided that your fortune Achieved her mistress.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 71)
Gentle lady, When did first impart my love to you, freely told you all the wealth had Ran in my veins: was a gentleman.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 93)
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer; Since you are dear bought, will love you dear.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 115)
Notwithstanding, use your pleasure. If your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 117)
love, dispatch all business and begone!   Since have your good leave to go away, will make haste.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 118)
Great Jove, Othello guard, And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath, That he may bless this bay with his tall ship, Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms, Give renewed fire to our extincted spirits, And bring all Cyprus comfort!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 28)
The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase Even as our days do grow!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 73)
-- Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus. have found great love amongst them.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 79)
Come hither. If thou be'st valiant--as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them--list me.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 84)
First, must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 86)
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 88)
And will she love him still for prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 89)
When the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties, all which the Moor is defective in.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 91)
If she had been blessed, she would never have loved the Moor.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 101)
Farewell.  Adieu.   That Cassio loves her, do well believe 't.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 115)
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 116)
Now, do love her too, Not out of absolute lust (though peradventure stand accountant for as great a sin) But partly led to diet my revenge For that do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leaped into my seat--the thought whereof Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards, And nothing can or shall content my soul Till am evened with him, wife for wife, Or, failing so, yet that put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 118)
Which thing to do, If this poor trash of Venice, whom trace For his quick hunting, stand the putting on, I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip, Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb (For fear Cassio with my nightcap too), Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me For making him egregiously an ass And practicing upon his peace and quiet Even to madness.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 119)
Come, my dear love, The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue; That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 4)
Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona--who let us not therefore blame; he hath not yet made wanton the night with her, and she is sport for Jove.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 7)
An inviting eye, and yet methinks right modest.  And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 11)
Now my sick fool Roderigo, Whom love hath turned almost the wrong side out, To Desdemona hath tonight caroused Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 22)
do love Cassio well and would do much To cure him of this evil-- But hark!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 60)
Who began this? On thy love, charge thee.   do not know.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 79)
know, Iago, Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, Making it light to Cassio.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 102)
--Cassio, love thee, But nevermore be officer of mine.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 103)
Look if my gentle love be not raised up! I'll make thee an example.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 104)
Exclaim no more against it. And, good lieutenant, think you think love you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 134)
This broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter, and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 139)
You advise me well.  protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 140)
She's framed as fruitful As the free elements. And then for her To win the Moor--were 't to renounce his baptism, All seals and symbols of redeemed sin-- His soul is so enfettered to her love That she may make, unmake, do what she list, Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 146)
And I'll tell you, he hath a fair daughter, and tomorrow is her birthday; and there are princes and knights come from all parts of the world to joust and tourney for her love.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 42)
" It kept where kept, so dearly loved it, Till the rough seas, that spares not any man, Took it in rage, though calmed have given 't again.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 49)
He loved me dearly, And for his sake wish the having of it, And that you'd guide me to your sovereign's court, Where with it may appear a gentleman.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 52)
He loves you well that holds his life of you.      Who is the second that presents himself?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 8)
Your presence glads our days. Honor we love, For who hates honor hates the gods above.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 8)
Here, with a cup that's stored unto the brim, As do you love, fill to your mistress' lips.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 20)
will not have excuse with saying this: "Loud music is too harsh for ladies' heads," Since they love men in arms as well as beds.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 39)
Princes, it is too late to talk of love, And that's the mark know you level at.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 46)
Your griefs? For what? Wrong not your prince you love.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 17)
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear. Take your wish, leap into the seas, Where's hourly trouble for a minute's ease.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 22)
But if cannot win you to this love, Go search like nobles, like noble subjects, And in your search spend your adventurous worth, Whom if you find and win unto return, You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 24)
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 26)
letter that she loves the knight of Tyre? 'Tis the King's subtlety to have my life.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 20)
-- seek not to entrap me, gracious lord, stranger and distressed gentleman That never aimed so high to love your daughter, But bent all offices to honor her.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 21)
By the gods, have not! Never did thought of mine levy offense; Nor never did my actions yet commence deed might gain her love or your displeasure.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 23)
No? Here comes my daughter. She can witness it.      Then as you are as virtuous as fair, Resolve your angry father if my tongue Did e'er solicit or my hand subscribe To any syllable that made love to you.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 27)
-- I'll tame you! I'll bring you in subjection. Will you, not having my consent, Bestow your love and your affections Upon a stranger?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 30)
Yes,  if you love me, sir.   Even as my life my blood that fosters it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 35)
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts And snatch them straight away?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 11)
It hath done to me the worst. Yet for the love Of this poor infant, this fresh new seafarer, would it would be quiet.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 19)
-- Convey me to my bed, then to my grave. Love they to live that love and honor have.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 40)
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear As Harry, Duke of Hereford, were he here.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 43)
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his; As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 44)
And we create, in absence of ourself, Our uncle York Lord Governor of England, For he is just and always loved us well.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 70)
Besides, our nearness to the King in love Is near the hate of those love not the King.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 51)
And that is the wavering commons, for their love Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 52)
thank thee, gentle Percy, and be sure count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends; And as my fortune ripens with thy love, It shall be still thy true love's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 15)
Welcome, my lords. wot your love pursues banished traitor.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 20)
All my treasury Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enriched, Shall be your love and labor's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 21)
Swear your love.   By heaven, my soul is purged from grudging hate, And with my hand seal my true heart's love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 4)
So prosper as swear perfect love.   And as love Hastings with my heart.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 6)
You have been factious one against the other.-- Wife, love Lord Hastings.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 8)
Dorset, embrace him.--Hastings, love Lord Marquess.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 11)
This interchange of love, here protest, Upon my part shall be inviolable.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 12)
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate Upon your Grace, but with all duteous love Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me With hate in those where expect most love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 14)
When have most need to employ a friend, And most assured that he is a friend, Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile Be he unto me: this do beg of God, When am cold in love to you or yours.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 15)
Happy indeed, as we have spent the day. Gloucester, we have done deeds of charity, Made peace of enmity, fair love of hate, Between these swelling, wrong-incensed peers.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 20)
'Tis death to me to be at enmity; hate it, and desire all good men's love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 22)
Why, madam, have offered love for this, To be so flouted in this royal presence?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 27)
Who spoke of brotherhood? Who spoke of love? Who told me how the poor soul did forsake The mighty Warwick and did fight for me?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 40)
And so will   Peace, children, peace. The King doth love you well.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 6)
Grandam, we can, for my good uncle Gloucester Told me the King, provoked to it by the Queen, Devised impeachments to imprison him; And when my uncle told me so, he wept, And pitied me, and kindly kissed my cheek, Bade me rely on him as on my father, And he would love me dearly as a child.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 8)
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers That bear this heavy mutual load of moan, Now cheer each other in each other's love.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 45)
Cry but "Ay me," pronounce but "love" and "dove." Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word, One nickname for her purblind son and heir, Young Abraham Cupid, he that shot so trim When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 5)
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.   If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 13)
Cast it off. It is my lady. it is my love! that she knew she were!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 3)
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand. that were a glove upon that hand, That might touch that cheek!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 7)
Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo? Deny thy father and refuse thy name, Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love, And I'll no longer be a Capulet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 9)
take thee at thy word. Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 16)
With love's light wings did o'erperch these walls, For stony limits cannot hold love out, And what love can do, that dares love attempt.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 23)
would not for the world they saw thee here.   have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes, And, but thou love me, let them find me here.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 27)
My life were better ended by their hate Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 28)
By love, that first did prompt me to inquire. He lent me counsel, and lent him eyes.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 30)
But farewell compliment. Dost thou love me? know thou wilt say "Ay," And will take thy word.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 34)
Yet, if thou swear'st, Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries, They say, Jove laughs.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 35)
gentle Romeo, If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 36)
should have been more strange, must confess, But that thou overheard'st ere was ware My true-love passion.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 40)
Therefore pardon me, And not impute this yielding to light love, Which the dark night hath so discovered.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 41)
Lady, by yonder blessed moon vow, That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--   swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon, That monthly changes in her circled orb, Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 42)
If my heart's dear love--   Well, do not swear. Although joy in thee, have no joy of this contract tonight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 44)
" Sweet, good night. This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath, May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 46)
Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 49)
Wouldst thou withdraw it? For what purpose, love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 51)
My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 53)
hear some noise within. Dear love, adieu.-- Anon, good nurse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 55)
If that thy bent of love be honorable, Thy purpose marriage, send me word tomorrow, By one that I'll procure to come to thee, Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite, And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 59)
thousand times the worse to want thy light. Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books, But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 63)
"   It is my soul that calls upon my name. How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, Like softest music to attending ears.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 66)
shall forget, to have thee still stand there, Rememb'ring how love thy company.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 70)
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 20)
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here! Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear, So soon forsaken?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 23)
Young men's love then lies Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 24)
How much salt water thrown away in waste To season love, that of it doth not taste!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 26)
And bad'st me bury love.  Not in a grave To lay one in, another out to have.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 32)
pray thee, chide me not. Her love now Doth grace for grace and love for love allow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 33)
The other did not so.  she knew well Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 34)
But come, young waverer, come, go with me. In one respect I'll thy assistant be, For this alliance may so happy prove To turn your households' rancor to pure love.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 35)
Alas, poor Romeo, he is already dead, stabbed with a white wench's black eye, run through the ear with a love-song, the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt shaft.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 5)
Laura to his lady was a kitchen wench (marry, she had a better love to berhyme her), Dido a dowdy, Cleopatra a gypsy, Helen and Hero hildings and harlots, Thisbe a gray eye or so, but not to the purpose.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 16)
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 35)
For this driveling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 37)
gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 59)
That fair for which love groaned for and would die, With tender Juliet matched, is now not fair.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 1)
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again, Alike bewitched by the charm of looks, But to his foe supposed he must complain, And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 2)
Being held a foe, he may not have access To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear, And she as much in love, her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 3)
Had she affections and warm youthful blood, She would be as swift in motion as a ball; My words would bandy her to my sweet love, And his to me.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 10)
faith, am sorry that thou art not well. Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 30)
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, warrant, a virtuous--Where is your mother?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 31)
How oddly thou repliest: "Your love says, like an honest gentleman, Where is your mother?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 33)
Hie you to church. must another way, To fetch a ladder by the which your love Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 39)
Do thou but close our hands with holy words, Then love-devouring death do what he dare, It is enough may but call her mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 2)
Therefore love moderately. Long love doth so. Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 5)
lover may bestride the gossamers That idles in the wanton summer air, And yet not fall, so light is vanity.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 7)
They are but beggars that can count their worth, But my true love is grown to such excess cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 11)
Nay, now see She is your treasure, she must have a husband, must dance barefoot on her wedding day And, for your love to her, lead apes in hell.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 13)
Then tell me, if get your daughter's love, What dowry shall have with her to wife?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 48)
Ay, when the special thing is well obtained, That is, her love, for that is all in all.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 52)
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench. love her ten times more than ere did.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 64)
tell you, 'tis incredible to believe How much she loves me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 130)
the kindest Kate! She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath, That in a twink she won me to her love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 131)
am your neighbor and was suitor first.   And am one that love Bianca more Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 144)
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as   Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 145)
will compound this strife. 'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both That can assure my daughter greatest dower Shall have my Bianca's love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 148)
Conster them.  Hic ibat, as told you before, Simois, am Lucentio, hic est, son unto Vincentio of Pisa, Sigeia tellus, disguised thus to get your love, Hic steterat, and that "Lucentio" that comes a-wooing, Priami, is my man Tranio, regia, bearing my port, celsa senis, that we might beguile the old pantaloon.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 12)
Now for my life the knave doth court my love! Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 18)
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.    "Gamut am, the ground of all accord: re, to plead Hortensio's passion; mi, Bianca, take him for thy lord, fa ut, that loves with all affection; sol re, one clef, two notes have la mi, show pity or die.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 26)
But have cause to pry into this pedant. Methinks he looks as though he were in love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 32)
Where is my lovely bride? How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 25)
But what a fool am to chat with you When should bid good morrow to my bride And seal the title with a lovely kiss!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 37)
I'll after him, and see the event of this.    But, sir, to love concerneth us to add Her father's liking, which to bring to pass, As before imparted to your Worship, am to get a man (whate'er he be It skills not much, we'll fit him to our turn), And he shall be "Vincentio of Pisa," And make assurance here in Padua Of greater sums than have promised.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 39)
Now, if you love me, stay.  Grumio, my horse.  Ay, sir, they be ready; the oats have eaten the horses.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 67)
Sir, your glove.  Not mine. My gloves are on.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 0)
Tell me, do you know Madam Sylvia?  She that your Worship loves?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 7)
Why, how know you that am in love?  Marry, by these special marks: first, you have learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms like a malcontent; to relish a love song like a robin redbreast; to walk alone like one that had the pestilence; to sigh like a schoolboy that had lost his to weep like a young wench that had buried her grandam; to fast like one that takes diet; to watch like one that fears robbing; to speak puling like a beggar at Hallowmas.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 8)
How long hath she been deformed?  Ever since you loved her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 25)
have loved her ever since saw her, and still see her beautiful.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 26)
If you love her, you cannot see her.  Why?  Because love is blind.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 27)
What should see then?  Your own present folly and her passing deformity; for he, being in love, could not see to garter his hose, and you, being in love, cannot see to put on your hose.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 29)
Belike, boy, then you are in love, for last morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 30)
True, sir, was in love with my bed. thank you, you swinged me for my love, which makes me the bolder to chide you for yours.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 31)
Last night she enjoined me to write some lines to one she loves.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 33)
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply, Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover, Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 67)
'Tis dinnertime.  have dined.  Ay, but hearken, sir, though the chameleon love can feed on the air, am one that am nourished by my victuals and would fain have meat.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 69)
Here is my hand for my true constancy. And when that hour o'erslips me in the day Wherein sigh not, Julia, for thy sake, The next ensuing hour some foul mischance Torment me for my love's forgetfulness.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 4)
Julia, farewell. What, gone without a word? Ay, so true love should do.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 6)
Ay, boy, it's for love.  Not of you.  Of my mistress, then.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 1)
Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good, He is as worthy for an empress' love, As meet to be an emperor's counselor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 25)
Why, lady, love hath twenty pair of eyes.   They say that Love hath not an eye at all.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 34)
To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself. Upon a homely object, Love can wink.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 35)
And how thrives your love?   My tales of love were wont to weary you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 51)
know you joy not in a love discourse.   Ay, Proteus, but that life is altered now.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 52)
have done penance for contemning Love, Whose high imperious thoughts have punished me With bitter fasts, with penitential groans, With nightly tears, and daily heartsore sighs, For in revenge of my contempt of love, Love hath chased sleep from my enthralled eyes And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 53)
Now, no discourse except it be of love. Now can break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep Upon the very naked name of Love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 55)
Call her divine.  will not flatter her.   flatter me, for love delights in praises.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 58)
Except my mistress.  Sweet, except not any, Except thou wilt except against my love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 61)
Forgive me that do not dream on thee, Because thou seest me dote upon my love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 66)
My foolish rival, that her father likes Only for his possessions are so huge, Is gone with her along, and must after, For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 67)
But she loves you?   Ay, and we are betrothed; nay more, our marriage hour, With all the cunning manner of our flight Determined of: how must climb her window, The ladder made of cords, and all the means Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 68)
Will you make haste?  will. Even as one heat another heat expels, Or as one nail by strength drives out another, So the remembrance of my former love Is by a newer object quite forgotten.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 71)
She is fair, and so is Julia that love-- That did love, for now my love is thawed, Which like a waxen image 'gainst a fire Bears no impression of the thing it was.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 73)
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold, And that love him not as was wont.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 74)
but love his lady too too much, And that's the reason love him so little.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 75)
How shall dote on her with more advice That thus without advice begin to love her?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 76)
If can check my erring love, will; If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 78)
'Tis well that get it so. But, Lance, how sayst thou that my master is become a notable lover?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 15)
tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.  Why, tell thee, care not though he burn himself in love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 18)
To leave my Julia, shall be forsworn. To love fair Sylvia, shall be forsworn.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 0)
Love bade me swear, and love bids me forswear. sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned, Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 2)
cannot leave to love, and yet do. But there leave to love where should love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 5)
to myself am dearer than a friend, For love is still most precious in itself, And Sylvia--witness heaven that made her fair-- Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 7)
will forget that Julia is alive, Rememb'ring that my love to her is dead; And Valentine I'll hold an enemy, Aiming at Sylvia as a sweeter friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 8)
Counsel, Lucetta. Gentle girl, assist me; And ev'n in kind love do conjure thee-- Who art the table wherein all my thoughts Are visibly charactered and engraved-- To lesson me and tell me some good mean How with my honor may undertake journey to my loving Proteus.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 0)
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love, Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow As seek to quench the fire of love with words.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 4)
do not seek to quench your love's hot fire, But qualify the fire's extreme rage, Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 5)
Then let me go and hinder not my course. I'll be as patient as a gentle stream And make a pastime of each weary step Till the last step have brought me to my love, And there I'll rest as after much turmoil blessed soul doth in Elysium.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 8)
Why, then, your Ladyship must cut your hair.   No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 11)
thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears, And instances of infinite of love Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 23)
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth. His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles, His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate, His tears pure messengers sent from his heart, His heart as far from fraud as heaven from Earth.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 25)
Only deserve my love by loving him. And presently go with me to my chamber To take a note of what stand in need of To furnish me upon my longing journey.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 27)
This love of theirs myself have often seen, Haply when they have judged me fast asleep, And oftentimes have purposed to forbid Sir Valentine her company and my court.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 6)
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean How he her chamber-window will ascend And with a corded ladder fetch her down; For which the youthful lover now is gone, And this way comes he with it presently, Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 9)
But, good my lord, do it so cunningly That my discovery be not aimed at; For love of you, not hate unto my friend, Hath made me publisher of this pretense.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 10)
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?   No. Trust me, she is peevish, sullen, froward, Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty, Neither regarding that she is my child Nor fearing me as if were her father; And may say to thee, this pride of hers, Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her, And where thought the remnant of mine age Should have been cherished by her childlike duty, now am full resolved to take a wife And turn her out to who will take her in.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 19)
Send her another; never give her o'er, For scorn at first makes after-love the more.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 25)
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you, But rather to beget more love in you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 26)
When would you use it? Pray sir, tell me that.   This very night; for love is like a child That longs for everything that he can come by.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 36)
But if thou linger in my territories Longer than swiftest expedition Will give thee time to leave our royal court, By heaven, my wrath shall far exceed the love ever bore my daughter or thyself.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 53)
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good. Here, if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love; Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 81)
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that And manage it against despairing thoughts.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 82)
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence, Which, being writ to me, shall be delivered Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 83)
The time now serves not to expostulate. Come, I'll convey thee through the city gate And, ere part with thee, confer at large Of all that may concern thy love affairs.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 84)
He lives not now that knows me to be in love, yet am in love, but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me, nor who 'tis love; and yet 'tis a woman, but what woman will not tell myself; and yet 'tis a milk-maid; yet 'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet 'tis a maid, for she is her master's maid and serves for wages.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 89)
Item, She hath no teeth.  care not for that neither, because love crusts.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 118)
Why didst not tell me sooner? Pox of your love letters!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 132)
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you Now Valentine is banished from her sight.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 0)
This weak impress of love is as a figure Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 2)
What might we do to make the girl forget The love of Valentine, and love Sir Thurio?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 12)
You have prevailed, my lord. If can do it By aught that can speak in his dispraise, She shall not long continue love to him.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 19)
But say this weed her love from Valentine, It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 20)
Therefore, as you unwind her love from him, Lest it should ravel and be good to none, You must provide to bottom it on me, Which must be done by praising me as much As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 21)
Upon this warrant shall you have access Where you with Sylvia may confer at large-- For she is lumpish, heavy, melancholy, And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you-- Where you may temper her by your persuasion To hate young Valentine and love my friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 23)
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.   This discipline shows thou hast been in love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 30)
love and honor him But must not break my back to heal his finger.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 10)
do not always follow lover, elder brother, and woman; sometime the philosopher.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 54)
My loved lord, Though you hear now too late, yet now's a time.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 63)
Secure thy heart. If would broach the vessels of my love And try the argument of hearts by borrowing, Men and men's fortunes could frankly use As can bid thee speak.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 78)
Commend me to their loves, and am proud, say, that my occasions have found time to use 'em toward a supply of money.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 84)
am as able and as fit as thou To serve and to deserve my mistress' grace, And that my sword upon thee shall approve And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 9)
Clubs, clubs! These lovers will not keep the peace.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 10)
What, is Lavinia then become so loose Or Bassianus so degenerate That for her love such quarrels may be broached Without controlment, justice, or revenge?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 21)
care not, knew she and all the world. love Lavinia more than all the world.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 23)
Or know you not in Rome How furious and impatient they be, And cannot brook competitors in love?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 26)
Aaron, a thousand deaths Would propose to achieve her whom love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 28)
She is a woman, therefore may be wooed; She is a woman, therefore may be won; She is Lavinia, therefore must be loved.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 30)
Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 42)
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand; There will the lovely Roman ladies troop.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 44)
Uncouple here, and let us make a bay And wake the Emperor and his lovely bride, And rouse the Prince, and ring a hunter's peal, That all the court may echo with the noise.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 1)
My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad, When everything doth make a gleeful boast?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 3)
--I pray you, let us hence, And let her joy her raven-colored love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 24)
Revenge it as you love your mother's life, Or be you not henceforth called my children.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 34)
Therefore away with her, and use her as you will; The worse to her, the better loved of me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 58)
Now will hence to seek my lovely Moor, And let my spleenful sons this trull deflower.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 70)
Speak, gentle niece. What stern ungentle hands Hath lopped and hewed and made thy body bare Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in, And might not gain so great a happiness As half thy love?(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 8)
Fair Philomela, why she but lost her tongue, And in a tedious sampler sewed her mind; But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 14)
Titus Andronicus, my lord the Emperor Sends thee this word, that if thou love thy sons, Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus, Or any one of you, chop off your hand And send it to the King; he for the same Will send thee hither both thy sons alive, And that shall be the ransom for their fault.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 54)
And for our father's sake and mother's care, Now let me show a brother's love to thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 65)
Hie to the Goths and raise an army there. And if you love me, as think you do, Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 109)
Farewell, proud Rome, till Lucius come again. He loves his pledges dearer than his life.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 111)
Draw thy sword. One stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest, And the King shall love thee.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 115)
Sometime am All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 3)
" She loved not the savor of tar nor of pitch, Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 23)
Do you love me?   heaven, Earth, bear witness to this sound, And crown what profess with kind event If speak true; if hollowly, invert What best is boded me to mischief.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 28)
Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world, Do love, prize, honor you.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 29)
It were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 4)
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your servant.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 17)
She loves me, sure! The cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 10)
If it be so, as 'tis, Poor lady, she were better love a dream.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 12)
How will this fadge? My master loves her dearly, And poor monster, fond as much on him, And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 16)
What will become of this? As am man, My state is desperate for my master's love.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 17)
If one knight give a--  Would you have a love song or a song of good life?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 15)
love song, a love song.  Ay, ay, care not for good life.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 16)
Your truelove's coming, That can sing both high and low.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 18)
Trip no further, pretty sweeting. Journeys end in lovers meeting, Every wise man's son doth know.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 19)
Excellent good, i' faith!  Good, good.   What is love?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 20)
Shall we do that?  An you love me, let's do 't. am dog at a catch.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 27)
the twelfth day of December--  For the love o' God, peace!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 40)
The devil a puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass that cons state without book and utters it by great swaths; the best persuaded of himself, so crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is his grounds of faith that all that look on him love him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 66)
What wilt thou do?  will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love, wherein by the color of his beard, the shape of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find himself most feelingly personated.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 68)
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop, that they come from my niece, and that she's in love with him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 71)
Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love, In the sweet pangs of it remember me, For such as am, all true lovers are, Unstaid and skittish in all motions else Save in the constant image of the creature That is beloved.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 6)
How dost thou like this tune?   It gives a very echo to the seat Where love is throned.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 7)
Thou dost speak masterly. My life upon 't, young though thou art, thine eye Hath stayed upon some favor that it loves.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 8)
think it well, my lord.   Then let thy love be younger than thyself, Or thy affection cannot hold the bent.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 15)
It is silly sooth, And dallies with the innocence of love Like the old age.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 20)
thousand thousand sighs to save, Lay me, where Sad true lover never find my grave To weep there.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 26)
Tell her my love, more noble than the world, Prizes not quantity of dirty lands.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 32)
But if she cannot love you, sir--   cannot be so answered.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 35)
Sooth, but you must. Say that some lady, as perhaps there is, Hath for your love as great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 36)
You cannot love her; You tell her so. Must she not then be answered?(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 37)
There is no woman's sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart So big, to hold so much; they lack retention.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 38)
Alas, their love may be called appetite, No motion of the liver but the palate, That suffer surfeit, cloyment, and revolt; But mine is all as hungry as the sea, And can digest as much.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 39)
Make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that owe Olivia.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 40)
Ay, but know--  What dost thou know?   Too well what love women to men may owe.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 41)
In faith, they are as true of heart as we. My father had a daughter loved a man As it might be, perhaps, were a woman, should your Lordship.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 42)
And what's her history?   blank, my lord. She never told her love, But let concealment, like a worm i' th' bud, Feed on her damask cheek.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 43)
Was not this love indeed? We men may say more, swear more, but indeed Our shows are more than will; for still we prove Much in our vows but little in our love.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 45)
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?   am all the daughters of my father's house, And all the brothers, too--and yet know not.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 46)
Give her this jewel. Say My love can give no place, bide no denay.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 48)
Observe him, for the love of mockery, for know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 8)
Why that?  To the unknown beloved, this, and my good wishes--Her very phrases!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 34)
Jove knows love, But who? Lips, do not move; No man must know.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 37)
do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade me; for every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 67)
She did commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered, and in this she manifests herself to my love and, with a kind of injunction, drives me to these habits of her liking.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 68)
Thou canst not choose but know who am. If thou entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles become thee well.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 71)
And here being thus together, We are an endless mine to one another; We are one another's wife, ever begetting New births of love; we are father, friends, acquaintance; We are, in one another, families; am your heir, and you are mine.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 22)
Is there record of any two that loved Better than we do, Arcite?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 34)
Till our deaths it cannot.    And after death our spirits shall be led To those that love eternally.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 36)
That was a fair boy certain, but a fool To love himself.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 39)
Might not a man well lose himself and love her?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 64)
Now feel my shackles.   You love her, then?  Who would not?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 66)
Yes, but you must not love her.   will not, as you do, to worship her As she is heavenly and a blessed goddess.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 69)
love her as a woman, to enjoy her. So both may love.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 70)
You shall not love at all.  Not love at all! Who shall deny me?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 71)
Yes, love her, And, if the lives of all my name lay on it, must do so.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 75)
love her with my soul. If that will lose you, farewell, Palamon.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 76)
say again, love, and in loving her maintain am as worthy and as free a lover And have as just a title to her beauty As any Palamon or any living That is a man's son.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 77)
You may be.  Why then would you deal so cunningly, So strangely, so unlike a noble kinsman, To love alone?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 82)
Fie, sir! You play the child extremely. will love her; must, ought to do so, and dare, And all this justly.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 89)
If that Get him a wife so noble and so fair, Let honest men ne'er love again.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 101)
And then am sure she would love me.--How now, keeper, Where's Arcite?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 104)
Arcite shall have a fortune, If he dare make himself a worthy lover, Yet in the field to strike a battle for her, And, if he lose her then, he's a cold coward.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 107)
Why should love this gentleman? 'Tis odds He never will affect me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 0)
Then loved him, Extremely loved him, infinitely loved him!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 6)
May thy goodness Get thee a happy husband." Once he kissed me; loved my lips the better ten days after.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 11)
What should do to make him know love him? For would fain enjoy him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 13)
Thus much for law or kindred! will do it, And this night, or tomorrow, he shall love me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 15)
love him beyond love and beyond reason Or wit or safety.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 3)
Yet hope, When he considers more, this love of mine Will take more root within him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 8)
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are your reasons: You know an enemy intends you harm; You know a sword employed is perilous, And reason flies the object of all harm.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 10)
And yet he loves himself. Is 't not strange?      Achilles will not to the field tomorrow.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 66)
What, have 'scaped love letters in the holiday time of my beauty, and am now a subject for them?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 0)
Let me see.  Ask me no reason why love you, for though Love use Reason for his precisian, he admits him not for his counselor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 1)
You love sack, and so do Would you desire better sympathy?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 4)
Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page--at the least, if the love of soldier can suffice--that love thee.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 5)
will not say pity me--'tis not a soldier-like phrase--but say love me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 6)
He loves the gallimaufry. Ford, perpend.  Love my wife?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 50)
He loves your wife; there's the short and the long.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 59)
My name is Nym, and Falstaff loves your wife. Adieu.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 61)
love not the humor of bread and cheese. Adieu.  "The humor of it," quoth he?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 62)
Blessing on your heart for 't!  But pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 44)
That were a trick indeed! But Mistress Page would desire you to send her your little page, of all loves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 46)
Well, sir.  have long loved her and, protest to you, bestowed much on her, followed her with a doting observance, engrossed opportunities to meet her, fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly give me sight of her, not only bought many presents to give her, but have given largely to many to know what she would have given.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 81)
Briefly, have pursued her as love hath pursued me, which hath been on the wing of all occasions.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 82)
That have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath taught me to say this: "Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues, Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 84)
Never.  Of what quality was your love, then?  Like a fair house built on another man's ground, so that have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where erected it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 87)
By gar, love you, and shall procure-a you de good guest: de earl, de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 39)
Ay, be-gar, and de maid is love-a me! My nursh-a Quickly tell me so mush.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 30)
What made me love thee? Let that persuade thee. There's something extraordinary in thee.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 27)
cannot. But love thee, none but thee; and thou deserv'st it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 29)
Do not betray me, sir. fear you love Mistress Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 30)
Thou mightst as well say love to walk by the Counter gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek of a lime-kiln.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 31)
Well, heaven knows how love you, and you shall one day find it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 32)
love thee. Help me away. Let me creep in here. I'll never--       Help to cover your master, boy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 57)
--I love you better.   And why so, my lord?  Not for because Your brows are blacker--yet black brows, they say, Become some women best, so that there be not Too much hair there, but in a semicircle, Or a half-moon made with a pen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 3)
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce, Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried The daughter of a king, our wife, and one Of us too much beloved.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 0)
For Polixenes, With whom am accused, do confess loved him as in honor he required, With such a kind of love as might become lady like me, with a love even such, So and no other, as yourself commanded, Which not to have done, think, had been in me Both disobedience and ingratitude To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke, Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely That it was yours.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 15)
The love bore your queen--lo, fool again!-- I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 69)
These are his substance, sinews, arms, and strength, With which he yoketh your rebellious necks, Razeth your cities, and subverts your towns, And in a moment makes them desolate.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 25)
Even like a man new-haled from the rack, So fare my limbs with long imprisonment; And these gray locks, the pursuivants of death, Nestor-like aged in an age of care, Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer; These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent, Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent; Weak shoulders, overborne with burdening grief, And pithless arms, like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground; Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb, Unable to support this lump of clay, Swift-winged with desire to get a grave, As witting no other comfort have.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 1)
But that the tennis-court keeper knows better than for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there, as thou hast not done a great while, because the rest of the low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland; and God knows whether those that bawl out the ruins of thy linen shall inherit His kingdom; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault, whereupon the world increases and kindreds are mightily strengthened.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 8)
If they get ground and vantage of the King, Then join you with them like a rib of steel To make strength stronger; but, for all our loves, First let them try themselves.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 17)
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race, lay me down a little while to breathe, For strokes received and many blows repaid Have robbed my strong-knit sinews of their strength; And spite of spite, needs must rest awhile.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 0)
My love and fear glued many friends to thee; And now fall, thy tough commixtures melts, Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 2)
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds; No way to fly, no strength to hold out flight.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 6)
Caesar and Lepidus Are in the field. mighty strength they carry.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 7)
Where lies he?  About the Mount Misena.  What is his strength by land?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 65)
He will to his Egyptian dish again. Then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as said before, that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 51)
Sir, my circumstances, Being so near the truth as will make them, Must first induce you to believe; whose strength will confirm with oath, which doubt not You'll give me leave to spare when you shall find You need it not.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 24)
Come, will fasten on this sleeve of thine.  Thou art an elm, my husband, a vine, Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state, Makes me with thy strength to communicate.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 66)
So did, Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seemed too much enkindled, and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humor, Which sometime hath his hour with every man.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 92)
take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks, Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength To make a more requital to your love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 8)
Blood hath bought blood, and blows have answered blows, Strength matched with strength, and power confronted power.(King John, Act 0, Scene 110)
That done, dissever your united strengths And part your mingled colors once again; Turn face to face and bloody point to point.(King John, Act 0, Scene 130)
Make your own purpose, How in my strength you please.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 47)
Why, worthy thane, You do unbend your noble strength to think So brainsickly of things.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 24)
it is excellent To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 50)
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat. Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 97)
And art thou changed? Pronounce this sentence then: Women may fall when there's no strength in men.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 30)
Will you make haste?  will. Even as one heat another heat expels, Or as one nail by strength drives out another, So the remembrance of my former love Is by a newer object quite forgotten.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 71)
This is a witness that am thy son.   And this for me, struck home to show my strength.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 35)
Reach me thy hand, that may help thee out, Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good, may be plucked into the swallowing womb Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 88)
have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.   Nor no strength to climb without thy help.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 89)
Now sit, and look you eat no more Than will preserve just so much strength in us As will revenge these bitter woes of ours.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 1)
Go and tell him We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin If you do say we think him overproud And underhonest, in self-assumption greater Than in the note of judgment; and worthier than himself Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on, Disguise the holy strength of their command, And underwrite in an observing kind His humorous predominance--yea, watch His course and time, his ebbs and flows, as if The passage and whole carriage of this action Rode on his tide.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 51)
My third comfort, Starred most unluckily, is from my breast, The innocent milk in it most innocent mouth, Haled out to murder; myself on every post Proclaimed a strumpet; with immodest hatred The childbed privilege denied, which longs To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried Here to this place, i' th' open air, before have got strength of limit.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 25)
Thy state is taken for a joined stool, thy golden scepter for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful bald crown.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 157)
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet. No, it will hang upon my richest robes And show itself, attire me how can.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 40)
Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade To shepherds looking on their silly sheep Than doth a rich embroidered canopy To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 9)
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 45)
For when rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 46)
The kitchen malkin pins Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck, Clamb'ring the walls to eye him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 90)
Ah, but some natural notes about her body Above ten thousand meaner movables Would testify t' enrich mine inventory.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 16)
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to it, and then let her consider.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 8)
piece of work So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive In workmanship and value, which wondered Could be so rarely and exactly wrought Since the true life on 't was--  This is true, And this you might have heard of here, by me Or by some other.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 26)
She stripped it from her arm. see her yet. Her pretty action did outsell her gift And yet enriched it too.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 38)
Where America, the Indies?  sir, upon her nose, all o'erembellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole armadas of carracks to be ballast at her nose.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 53)
That's all the riches got in his service.  Shall we shog?(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 20)
Yet am richer than my base accusers, That never knew what truth meant.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 43)
No, not for all the riches under heaven.   'Tis strange.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 10)
Ha, majesty! How high thy glory towers When the rich blood of kings is set on fire!(King John, Act 0, Scene 117)
If love ambitious sought a match of birth, Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 146)
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poitiers, And all that we upon this side the sea-- Except this city now by us besieged-- Find liable to our crown and dignity, Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich In titles, honors, and promotions, As she in beauty, education, blood, Holds hand with any princess of the world.(King John, Act 0, Scene 166)
We will heal up all, For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Brittany And Earl of Richmond, and this rich, fair town We make him lord of.(King John, Act 0, Scene 188)
Not that have the power to clutch my hand When his fair angels would salute my palm, But for my hand, as unattempted yet, Like a poor beggar raileth on the rich.(King John, Act 0, Scene 195)
Well, whiles am a beggar, will rail And say there is no sin but to be rich; And being rich, my virtue then shall be To say there is no vice but beggary.(King John, Act 0, Scene 196)
On whose side? The King's. The captive is enriched.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 37)
You had marred all else.   Not with fond sicles of the tested gold, Or stones whose rate are either rich or poor As fancy values them, but with true prayers That shall be up at heaven and enter there Ere sunrise, prayers from preserved souls, From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate To nothing temporal.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 66)
If thou art rich, thou 'rt poor, For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows, Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey, And death unloads thee.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 12)
Thou hast nor youth nor age, But as it were an after-dinner's sleep Dreaming on both, for all thy blessed youth Becomes as aged and doth beg the alms Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich, Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty To make thy riches pleasant.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 14)
heavens, what stuff is here?  'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him warm, and furred with fox and lambskins too, to signify that craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 1)
His mother was a vot'ress of my order, And in the spiced Indian air by night Full often hath she gossiped by my side And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking th' embarked traders on the flood, When we have laughed to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait, Following (her womb then rich with my young squire), Would imitate and sail upon the land To fetch me trifles and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 38)
And am sick when look not on you.   You do impeach your modesty too much To leave the city and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not, To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 68)
And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will And leads me to your eyes, where o'erlook Love's stories written in love's richest book.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 53)
Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? And wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love (so rich within his soul) And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 89)
Wouldst thou aught with me?  Here's my son, sir, a poor boy--  Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that would, sir, as my father shall specify--  He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--  Indeed, the short and the long is, serve the Jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify--  His master and he (saving your Worship's reverence) are scarce cater-cousins--  To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father being, hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--  have here a dish of doves that would bestow upon your Worship, and my suit is--  In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your Worship shall know by this honest old man, and though say it, though old man yet poor man, my father--  One speak for both.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 51)
know thee well. Thou hast obtained thy suit. Shylock thy master spoke with me this day, And hath preferred thee, if it be preferment To leave a rich Jew's service, to become The follower of so poor a gentleman.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 53)
sinful thought! Never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 23)
my Christian ducats! Justice, the law, my ducats, and my daughter, sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats, Of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter, And jewels--two stones, two rich and precious stones-- Stol'n by my daughter!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 6)
Marry, well remembered. reasoned with a Frenchman yesterday Who told me, in the Narrow Seas that part The French and English, there miscarried vessel of our country richly fraught.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 10)
Here. What would my lord?   Madam, there is alighted at your gate young Venetian, one that comes before To signify th' approaching of his lord, From whom he bringeth sensible regreets; To wit (besides commends and courteous breath), Gifts of rich value; yet have not seen So likely an ambassador of love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 38)
Now, what news on the Rialto?  Why, yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wracked on the Narrow Seas--the Goodwins, think they call the place--a very dangerous flat, and fatal, where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip Report be an honest woman of her word.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 0)
Though for myself alone would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better, yet for you would be trebled twenty times myself, thousand times more fair, ten thousand times More rich, that only to stand high in your account might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed account.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 57)
behold, The riches of the ship is come on shore!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 29)
What's the matter That you unlace your reputation thus, And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night-brawler?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 85)
can compare our rich misers to nothing so fitly as to a whale: he plays and tumbles, driving the poor fry before him and at last devours them all at a mouthful.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 12)
hold it ever Virtue and cunning were endowments greater Than nobleness and riches.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 11)
The diamonds of a most praised water doth Appear to make the world twice rich.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 41)
All my treasury Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enriched, Shall be your love and labor's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 21)
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.   And far surmounts our labor to attain it.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 22)
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot, For then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel; then the King Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 9)
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 20)
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.   Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine, and that thy skill be more To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air, and let rich music's tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 9)
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 10)
then belike you fancy riches more. You will have Gremio to keep you fair.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 5)
Say, Signior Gremio, what can you assure her?   First, as you know, my house within the city Is richly furnished with plate and gold, Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry; In ivory coffers have stuffed my crowns, In cypress chests my arras counterpoints, Costly apparel, tents, and canopies, Fine linen, Turkey cushions bossed with pearl, Valance of Venice gold in needlework, Pewter and brass, and all things that belongs To house or housekeeping.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 149)
If may have your daughter to my wife, I'll leave her houses three or four as good, Within rich Pisa walls, as any one Old Signior Gremio has in Padua, Besides two thousand ducats by the year Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 153)
Why, man, she is mine own, And as rich in having such a jewel As twenty seas if all their sand were pearl, The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 65)
know it well, my lord, and sure the match Were rich and honorable.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 17)
have been bold-- For that knew it the most general way-- To them to use your signet and your name, But they do shake their heads, and am here No richer in return.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 88)
Scape being drunk, for want of wine.   th' commonwealth would by contraries Execute all things, for no kind of traffic Would admit; no name of magistrate; Letters should not be known; riches, poverty, And use of service, none; contract, succession, Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none; No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil; No occupation; all men idle, all, And women too, but innocent and pure; No sovereignty--  Yet he would be king on 't.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 56)
There be some sports are painful, and their labor Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone; and most poor matters Point to rich ends.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 0)
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears, and sometimes voices That, if then had waked after long sleep, Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming, The clouds methought would open, and show riches Ready to drop upon me, that when waked cried to dream again.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 67)
frown the while, and perchance wind up my watch, or play with my--some rich jewel.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 22)
But, worthy Hector, She is a theme of honor and renown, spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds, Whose present courage may beat down our foes, And fame in time to come canonize us; For presume brave Hector would not lose So rich advantage of a promised glory As smiles upon the forehead of this action For the wide world's revenue.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 63)
He woos both high and low, both rich and poor, Both young and old, one with another, Ford.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 49)
He, most humane And filled with honor, to my kingly guest Unclasped my practice, quit his fortunes here, Which you knew great, and to the hazard Of all incertainties himself commended, No richer than his honor.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 46)
Go forward, and be choked with thy ambition! And so farewell, until meet thee next.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 38)
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer, Choked with ambition of the meaner sort.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 37)
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.   And thy ambition, Gloucester.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 15)
Do you as do in these dangerous days: Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence, At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition, At Buckingham, and all the crew of them, Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock, That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 18)
Come, warble, come.  Song.    Who doth ambition shun And loves to live i' th' sun, Seeking the food he eats And pleased with what he gets, Come hither, come hither, come hither.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 16)
To me, it is a prison.  Why, then, your ambition makes it one.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 89)
Which dreams, indeed, are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 91)
dream itself is but a shadow.  Truly, and hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 92)
But 'tis a common proof That lowliness is young ambition's ladder, Whereto the climber-upward turns his face; But, when he once attains the upmost round, He then unto the ladder turns his back, Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 10)
Urge them while their souls Are capable of this ambition, Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath Of soft petitions, pity, and remorse, Cool and congeal again to what it was.(King John, Act 0, Scene 162)
'Gainst nature still! Thriftless ambition, that will ravin up Thine own lives' means.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 11)
Pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.   My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 92)
This is the period of my ambition. this blessed hour!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 16)
monstrous! Eleven buckram men grown out of two!  But as the devil would have it, three misbegotten knaves in Kendal green came at my back, and let drive at me, for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst not see thy hand.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 90)
That same mad fellow of the north, Percy, and he of Wales that gave Amamon the bastinado, and made Lucifer cuckold, and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh hook--what a plague call you him?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 140)
But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible afeard? Thou being heir apparent, could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 151)
Thou art violently carried away from grace. There is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 185)
Jesu, my lord, my lord--  Heigh, heigh, the devil rides upon a fiddlestick.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 203)
He cares not what mischief he does. If his weapon be out, he will foin like any devil.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 7)
Very hardly, upon such a subject.  By this hand, thou thinkest me as far in the devil's book as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 15)
What the devil hast thou brought there-- applejohns?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 0)
For the boy, there is a good angel about him, but the devil blinds him too.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 152)
My lord, long to hear it at full.   Sweet York, begin; and if thy claim be good, The Nevilles are thy subjects to command.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 1)
And, Neville, this do assure myself: Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick The greatest man in England but the King.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 22)
Well then, go you into hell?  No, but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head, and say "Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven; here's no place for you maids.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 15)
And thought they Margaret was Hero?  Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio, but the devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly by my villainy, which did confirm any slander that Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged, swore he would meet her as he was appointed next morning at the temple, and there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 59)
Be more expressive to them, for they wear themselves in the cap of the time; there do muster true gait; eat, speak, and move under the influence of the most received star, and, though the devil lead the measure, such are to be followed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 25)
Who? God?  Ay, sir.  The devil it is that's thy master.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 104)
have spoken better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand, but we must do good against evil.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 18)
Most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin; For thou thyself hast been a libertine, As sensual as the brutish sting itself, And all th' embossed sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 23)
Till he be first sufficed, Oppressed with two weak evils, age and hunger, will not touch a bit.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 46)
Come, go.  I'll attend your Lordship.  That such a crafty devil as is his mother Should yield the world this ass!(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 23)
--How now, Pisanio!     "His garment"? Now the devil--   To Dorothy, my woman, hie thee presently.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 56)
all the devils! This yellow Iachimo in an hour, was 't not?(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 4)
Yet 'tis greater skill In a true hate to pray they have their will; The very devils cannot plague them better.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 9)
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed; Ill deeds is doubled with an evil word.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 9)
Why the devil should we keep knives to cut one another's throats?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 36)
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels, That knew'st the very bottom of my soul, That almost mightst have coined me into gold, Wouldst thou have practiced on me for thy use-- May it be possible that foreign hire Could out of thee extract one spark of evil That might annoy my finger?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 47)
Treason and murder ever kept together, As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose, Working so grossly in a natural cause That admiration did not whoop at them.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 49)
All other devils that suggest by treasons Do botch and bungle up damnation With patches, colors, and with forms being fetched From glist'ring semblances of piety; But he that tempered thee bade thee stand up, Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason, Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 51)
And of women.  Nay, that he did not.  Yes, that he did, and said they were devils incarnate.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 14)
He said once, the devil would have him about women.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 16)
The King's attorney on the contrary Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions Of divers witnesses, which the Duke desired To him brought viva voce to his face; At which appeared against him his surveyor, Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car, Confessor to him, with that devil monk, Hopkins, that made this mischief.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 7)
Be what they will, heartily forgive 'em. Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief, Nor build their evils on the graves of great men, For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 28)
If the Duke be guiltless, 'Tis full of woe. Yet can give you inkling Of an ensuing evil, if it fall, Greater than this.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 56)
If he do blench, know my course. The spirit that have seen May be a devil, and the devil hath power assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps, Out of my weakness and my melancholy, As he is very potent with such spirits, Abuses me to damn me.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 210)
Let 'em enter. They are the faction. conspiracy, Sham'st thou to show thy dang'rous brow by night, When evils are most free?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 31)
And these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent, and on her knee Hath begged that will stay at home today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 37)
My bed was ever to thy son as true As thine was to thy husband, and this boy Liker in feature to his father Geoffrey Than thou and John, in manners being as like As rain to water or devil to his dam.(King John, Act 0, Scene 41)
Peace!  Hear the crier!  What the devil art thou?(King John, Act 0, Scene 45)
One that will play the devil, sir, with you, An he may catch your hide and you alone.(King John, Act 0, Scene 46)
Mad world, mad kings, mad composition! John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole, Hath willingly departed with a part; And France, whose armor conscience buckled on, Whom zeal and charity brought to the field As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil, That broker that still breaks the pate of faith, That daily break-vow, he that wins of all, Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids-- Who having no external thing to lose But the word "maid," cheats the poor maid of that-- That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity, Commodity, the bias of the world-- The world, who of itself is peised well, Made to run even upon even ground, Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias, This sway of motion, this Commodity, Makes it take head from all indifferency, From all direction, purpose, course, intent.(King John, Act 0, Scene 192)
The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures. 'Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 30)
Knock, knock! Who's there, in th' other devil's name?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 4)
I'll devil-porter it no further. had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to th' everlasting bonfire.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 10)
Those many had not dared to do that evil If the first that did th' edict infringe Had answered for his deed.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 45)
Now 'tis awake, Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet, Looks in a glass that shows what future evils-- Either now, or by remissness new-conceived, And so in progress to be hatched and born-- Are now to have no successive degrees But, ere they live, to end.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 46)
Having waste ground enough, Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary And pitch our evils there?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 74)
do confess it and repent it, father.   'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent As that the sin hath brought you to this shame, Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven, Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it, But as we stand in fear--   do repent me as it is an evil, And take the shame with joy.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 11)
God in my mouth, As if did but only chew His name, And in my heart the strong and swelling evil Of my conception.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 2)
Blood, thou art blood. Let's write "good angel" on the devil's horn.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 6)
'Tis not the devil's crest.  How now, who's there?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 7)
But is there any?  Yes, brother, you may live. There is a devilish mercy in the judge, If you'll implore it, that will free your life But fetter you till death.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 26)
This outward-sainted deputy-- Whose settled visage and deliberate word Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth enew As falcon doth the fowl--is yet a devil.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 35)
Fie, sirrah, a bawd, a wicked bawd! The evil that thou causest to be done, That is thy means to live.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 5)
But yet, sir, would prove--   Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin, Thou wilt prove his.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 9)
And this same progeny of evils comes From our debate, from our dissension; We are their parents and original.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 34)
You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, devilish holy fray!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 51)
" To be ruled by my conscience, should stay with the Jew my master, who (God bless the mark) is a kind of devil; and to run away from the Jew, should be ruled by the fiend, who (saving your reverence) is the devil himself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 8)
Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnation, and, in my conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 9)
2        am sorry thou wilt leave my father so. Our house is hell and thou, a merry devil, Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 0)
would it might prove the end of his losses.  Let me say "amen" betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 4)
She is damned for it.  That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 9)
We have been up and down to seek him.     Here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 29)
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being seasoned with a gracious voice, Obscures the show of evil?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 31)
You are pictures out of door, bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens, saints in your injuries, devils being offended, players in your huswifery, and huswives in your beds.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 42)
Her eye must be fed. And what delight shall she have to look on the devil?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 90)
Why, none, why, none! slipper and subtle knave, a finder-out of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never present itself; a devilish knave!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 96)
Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio And looks not on his evils.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 56)
do love Cassio well and would do much To cure him of this evil-- But hark!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 60)
And discourse fustian with one's own shadow? thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 119)
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the devil wrath.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 125)
strange! Every inordinate cup is unblessed, and the ingredient is a devil.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 132)
Divinity of hell! When devils will the blackest sins put on, They do suggest at first with heavenly shows, As do now.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 148)
First, madam, entreat true peace of you, Which will purchase with my duteous service;-- Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham, If ever any grudge were lodged between us;-- Of you and you, Lord Rivers and of Dorset, That all without desert have frowned on me;-- Of you, Lord Woodeville and Lord Scales;--of you, Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 23)
Where the devil should this Romeo be? Came he not home tonight?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 0)
For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit! Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 10)
Why, no, for she hath broke the lute to me. did but tell her she mistook her frets, And bowed her hand to teach her fingering, When, with a most impatient devilish spirit, " 'Frets' call you these?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 62)
Curster than she? Why, 'tis impossible.   Why, he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 47)
Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.   Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 48)
Have we devils here? Do you put tricks upon 's with savages and men of Ind?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 26)
Where the devil should he learn our language? will give him some relief, if it be but for that.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 29)
should know that voice. It should be--but he is drowned, and these are devils.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 41)
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy, this is a devil, and no monster!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 47)
murrain on your monster, and the devil take your fingers!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 40)
If thou be'st a devil, take 't as thou list.  forgive me my sins!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 63)
Therefore shall crave of you your leave that may bear my evils alone.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 3)
The devil a puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass that cons state without book and utters it by great swaths; the best persuaded of himself, so crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is his grounds of faith that all that look on him love him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 66)
If you will see it, follow me.  To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 84)
Devils take 'em That are so envious to me! Prithee, kill me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 112)
Let all the dukes and all the devils roar! He is at liberty.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 0)
'Sfoot, I'll learn to conjure and raise devils but I'll see some issue of my spiteful execrations.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 3)
have said my prayers, and devil Envy say "Amen."--What ho, my lord Achilles!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 8)
What an unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard picked--with the devil's name!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 10)
Terms, names! "Amaimon" sounds well, "Lucifer" well, "Barbason" well; yet they are devils' additions, the names of fiends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 121)
But "Cuckold," "Wittoll," "Cuckold"! The devil himself hath not such a name.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 122)
What spirit, what devil suggests this imagination?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 89)
Good my liege, come-- And beseech you hear me, who professes Myself your loyal servant, your physician, Your most obedient counselor, yet that dares Less appear so in comforting your evils Than such as most seem yours--I say come From your good queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 23)
Nor was 't much Thou wouldst have poisoned good Camillo's honor, To have him kill a king: poor trespasses, More monstrous standing by, whereof reckon The casting forth to crows thy baby daughter To be or none or little, though a devil Would have shed water out of fire ere done 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 54)
After that things are set in order here, We'll follow them with all the power we have.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 7)
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good; Only give order for my funeral.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 32)
As you'll have her.   have writ my letters, casketed my treasure, Given order for our horses, and tonight, When should take possession of the bride, End ere do begin.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 9)
Frame yourself To orderly solicits and be friended With aptness of the season.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 21)
Our countrymen Are men more ordered than when Julius Caesar Smiled at their lack of skill but found their courage Worthy his frowning at.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 7)
set him there, sir, but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 88)
If your Worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 91)
There is pretty orders beginning, can tell you. It is but heading and hanging.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 92)
Did not tell thee yea? Hadst thou not order? Why dost thou ask again?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 5)
Let her have needful but not lavish means. There shall be order for 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 13)
What's your will, good friar?   Bound by my charity and my blest order, come to visit the afflicted spirits Here in the prison.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 1)
heavens, what stuff is here?  'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him warm, and furred with fox and lambskins too, to signify that craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 1)
am a brother Of gracious order, late come from the See In special business from his Holiness.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 104)
His mother was a vot'ress of my order, And in the spiced Indian air by night Full often hath she gossiped by my side And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking th' embarked traders on the flood, When we have laughed to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait, Following (her womb then rich with my young squire), Would imitate and sail upon the land To fetch me trifles and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 38)
pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this.  These things being bought and orderly bestowed, Return in haste, for do feast tonight My best esteemed acquaintance.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 63)
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly ordered, And better in my mind not undertook.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 2)
Yours, sir, We have given order be next our own.  am at your Grace's pleasure.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 45)
Gentlemen, will you go muster men? If know how or which way to order these affairs Thus disorderly thrust into my hands, Never believe me.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 44)
Is Clarence dead? The order was reversed.   But he, poor man, by your first order died, And that a winged Mercury did bear.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 31)
Go to it orderly.   You wrong me, Signior Gremio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 20)
Madam, before you touch the instrument, To learn the order of my fingering must begin with rudiments of art, To teach you gamut in a briefer sort, More pleasant, pithy, and effectual Than hath been taught by any of my trade.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 24)
Sir Toby, must be round with you. My lady bade me tell you that, though she harbors you as her kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 45)
If this law Of nature be corrupted through affection, And that great minds, of partial indulgence To their benumbed wills, resist the same, There is a law in each well-ordered nation To curb those raging appetites that are Most disobedient and refractory.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 58)
And yet he would not swear; praised women's modesty; and gave such orderly and well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness that would have sworn his disposition would have gone to the truth of his words.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 26)
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it So like to him that got it, if thou hast The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colors No yellow in 't, lest she suspect, as he does, Her children not her husband's.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 42)
set him there, sir, but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 88)
Gentlemen, will you go muster men? If know how or which way to order these affairs Thus disorderly thrust into my hands, Never believe me.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 44)
Sir Toby, must be round with you. My lady bade me tell you that, though she harbors you as her kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 45)
Yet say he is in love.  There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises, as to be a Dutchman today, a Frenchman tomorrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 12)
--Why, what read you there That have so cowarded and chased your blood Out of appearance?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 40)
Pray you, pass on. will not tarry; no, nor ever more Upon this business my appearance make In any of their courts.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 51)
And shamed life a hateful.   Ay, but to die, and go we know not where, To lie in cold obstruction and to rot, This sensible warm motion to become kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice, To be imprisoned in the viewless winds And blown with restless violence round about The pendent world; or to be worse than worst Of those that lawless and incertain thought Imagine howling--'tis too horrible.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 47)
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 88)
Your officer Iago can inform you, While spare speech, which something now offends me, Of all that do know; nor know aught By me that's said or done amiss this night, Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice, And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 87)
What means this scene of rude impatience?   To make an act of tragic violence.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 14)
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice Prove violence, in the which three great ones suffer: Yourself, your queen, your son.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 53)
But now the substance shall endure the like, And will chain these legs and arms of thine, That hast by tyranny these many years Wasted our country, slain our citizens, And sent our sons and husbands captivate.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 16)
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me. But yet methinks my father's execution Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 27)
So let high-sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 46)
Insulting tyranny begins to jut Upon the innocent and aweless throne.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 24)
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny. Yet every mother breeds not sons alike.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 48)
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.   Then all too late bring this fatal writ, The complot of this timeless tragedy, And wonder greatly that man's face can fold In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 99)
Thou kill'st my heart. Mine eyes are cloyed with view of tyranny; deed of death done on the innocent Becomes not Titus' brother.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 21)
I'll not call you tyrant; But this most cruel usage of your queen, Not able to produce more accusation Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savors Of tyranny, and will ignoble make you, Yea, scandalous to the world.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 47)
But thus: if powers divine Behold our human actions, as they do, doubt not then but innocence shall make False accusation blush and tyranny Tremble at patience.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 6)
Thy tyranny, Together working with thy jealousies, Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle For girls of nine, think what they have done, And then run mad indeed, stark mad, for all Thy bygone fooleries were but spices of it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 52)
Give you a reason on compulsion? If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, would give no man a reason upon compulsion,  I'll be no longer guilty of this sin.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 97)
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood, And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 33)
In sight of God and us, your guilt is great. Receive the sentence of the law for sins Such as by God's book are adjudged to death.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 1)
Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!   Go, take hence that traitor from our sight; For by his death we do perceive his guilt.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 40)
But lest myself be guilty to self wrong, I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 64)
But see, thy fault France hath in thee found out, nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills With treacherous crowns, and three corrupted men-- One, Richard, Earl of Cambridge, and the second, Henry, Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third, Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland-- Have, for the gilt of France guilt indeed!(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 5)
You may guess quickly what.  Is he found guilty?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 3)
The great duke Came to the bar, where to his accusations He pleaded still not guilty and alleged Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 6)
And so his peers upon this evidence Have found him guilty of high treason.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 10)
Be what they will, heartily forgive 'em. Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief, Nor build their evils on the graves of great men, For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 28)
If the Duke be guiltless, 'Tis full of woe. Yet can give you inkling Of an ensuing evil, if it fall, Greater than this.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 56)
You, laying these slight sullies on my son, As 'twere a thing a little soiled i' th' working, Mark you, your party in converse, him you would sound, Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured He closes with you in this consequence: "Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentleman," According to the phrase or the addition Of man and country--  Very good, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 15)
He would drown the stage with tears And cleave the general ear with horrid speech, Make mad the guilty and appall the free, Confound the ignorant and amaze indeed The very faculties of eyes and ears.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 199)
Fie upon 't! Foh! About, my brains!--Hum, have heard That guilty creatures sitting at a play Have, by the very cunning of the scene, Been struck so to the soul that presently They have proclaimed their malefactions; For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak With most miraculous organ.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 207)
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, Old feeble carrions, and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath, when every drop of blood That every Roman bears, and nobly bears, Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 50)
And out of question so it is sometimes: Glory grows guilty of detested crimes, When for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part, We bend to that the working of the heart; As for praise alone now seek to spill The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 15)
If he do bleed, I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal, For it must seem their guilt.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 31)
If it confess natural guiltiness such as is his, Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue Against my brother's life.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 61)
You spend your passion on a misprised mood. am not guilty of Lysander's blood, Nor is he dead, for aught that can tell.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 28)
But till come again, No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 119)
'Has had most favorable and happy speed! Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds, The guttered rocks and congregated sands (Traitors ensteeped to clog the guiltless keel), As having sense of beauty, do omit Their mortal natures, letting go safely by The divine Desdemona.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 26)
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood, But bloody with the enemies of his kin.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 57)
This is the fruits of rashness. Marked you not How that the guilty kindred of the Queen Looked pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 49)
Let them not speak a word. The guilt is plain. For, by my soul, were there worse end than death, That end upon them should be executed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 111)
--Away with her to prison. He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty But that he speaks.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 43)
You need not fear it, sir. This child was prisoner to the womb, and is By law and process of great nature thence Freed and enfranchised, not a party to The anger of the King, nor guilty of, If any be, the trespass of the Queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 27)
We can, my royal liege. He is not guilty of her coming hither.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 61)
Let us be cleared Of being tyrannous, since we so openly Proceed in justice, which shall have due course Even to the guilt or the purgation.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 1)
Since what am to say must be but that Which contradicts my accusation, and The testimony on my part no other But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me To say "Not guilty.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 4)
--Now, my masters, for a true face and good conscience.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 212)
Why that way?  To lose itself in a fog, where, being three parts melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return for conscience' sake, to help to get thee a wife.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 9)
'Tis mine, and this will witness outwardly As strongly as the conscience does within To th' madding of her lord.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 19)
All the commons Hate him perniciously and, o' my conscience, Wish him ten fathom deep.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 19)
Yet heaven bear witness, And if have a conscience, let it sink me Even as the ax falls, if be not faithful!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 25)
What's the cause?   It seems the marriage with his brother's wife Has crept too near his conscience.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 6)
No, his conscience Has crept too near another lady.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 7)
For, now he has cracked the league Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great-nephew, He dives into the King's soul and there scatters Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience, Fears and despairs--and all these for his marriage.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 11)
My good Lord Cardinal? my Wolsey, The quiet of my wounded conscience, Thou art a cure fit for a king.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 34)
But, conscience, conscience! 'tis a tender place, and must leave her.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 64)
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you, Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty; Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts, Saving your mincing, the capacity Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive If you might please to stretch it.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 8)
Then mark th' inducement. Thus it came; give heed to 't: My conscience first received a tenderness, Scruple, and prick on certain speeches uttered By th' Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador, Who had been hither sent on the debating marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and Our daughter Mary.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 62)
This respite shook The bosom of my conscience, entered me, Yea, with a spitting power, and made to tremble The region of my breast; which forced such way That many mazed considerings did throng And pressed in with this caution.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 64)
Thus hulling in The wild sea of my conscience, did steer Toward this remedy whereupon we are Now present here together.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 68)
That's to say, meant to rectify my conscience, which then did feel full sick, and yet not well, By all the reverend fathers of the land And doctors learned.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 69)
I'll have grounds More relative than this. The play's the thing Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 211)
Mad world, mad kings, mad composition! John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole, Hath willingly departed with a part; And France, whose armor conscience buckled on, Whom zeal and charity brought to the field As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil, That broker that still breaks the pate of faith, That daily break-vow, he that wins of all, Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids-- Who having no external thing to lose But the word "maid," cheats the poor maid of that-- That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity, Commodity, the bias of the world-- The world, who of itself is peised well, Made to run even upon even ground, Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias, This sway of motion, this Commodity, Makes it take head from all indifferency, From all direction, purpose, course, intent.(King John, Act 0, Scene 192)
do; and bear the shame most patiently.   I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience, And try your penitence, if it be sound Or hollowly put on.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 7)
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 0)
" My conscience says "No. Take heed, honest Lancelet, take heed, honest Gobbo," or, as aforesaid, "honest Lancelet Gobbo, do not run; scorn running with thy heels.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 2)
" Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me "My honest friend Lancelet, being an honest man's son"--or rather, an honest woman's son, for indeed my father did something smack, something grow to--he had a kind of taste--well, my conscience says "Lancelet, budge not.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 5)
" "Budge," says the fiend. "Budge not," says my conscience.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 6)
" To be ruled by my conscience, should stay with the Jew my master, who (God bless the mark) is a kind of devil; and to run away from the Jew, should be ruled by the fiend, who (saving your reverence) is the devil himself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 8)
Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnation, and, in my conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 9)
Both are my kinsmen. one is my sovereign, whom both my oath And duty bids defend; t' other again Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wronged, Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 45)
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack To think shall lack friends?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 77)
But, for your conscience?   Ay, sir, where lies that?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 107)
Twenty consciences That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they And melt ere they molest!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 109)
Next, pitied him, And so would any young wench, o' my conscience, That ever dreamed, or vowed her maidenhead To a young handsome man.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 5)
'Tis my fault, Master Page. suffer for it.  You suffer for a pad conscience.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 91)
appeal To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes Came to your court, how was in your grace, How merited to be so; since he came, With what encounter so uncurrent Have strained t' appear thus; if one jot beyond The bound of honor, or in act or will That way inclining, hardened be the hearts Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin Cry fie upon my grave.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 11)
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both; Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts; Keep his brain fuming.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 11)
Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft, And wit depends on dilatory time.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 154)
Where's your yeoman? Is 't a lusty yeoman? Will he stand to 't?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 1)
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both; Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts; Keep his brain fuming.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 11)
His soldiership Is twice the other twain. But let us rear The higher our opinion, that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck The ne'er lust-wearied Antony.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 16)
Thy luster thickens When he shines by. say again, thy spirit Is all afraid to govern thee near him; But he away, 'tis noble.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 13)
Good sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals. You shall find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain Spurio with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here on his sinister cheek.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 20)
That's it. would have said the very same.  Why, your dolphin is not lustier.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 10)
Though look old, yet am strong and lusty, For in my youth never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood, Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 19)
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter, Frosty but kindly.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 20)
" And then he drew a dial from his poke And, looking on it with lack-luster eye, Says very wisely "It is ten o'clock.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 8)
How dearly would it touch thee to the quick, Shouldst thou but hear were licentious And that this body, consecrate to thee, By ruffian lust should be contaminate!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 53)
know thou canst, and therefore see thou do it. am possessed with an adulterate blot; My blood is mingled with the crime of lust; For if we two be one, and thou play false, do digest the poison of thy flesh, Being strumpeted by thy contagion.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 55)
And out of all these to restore the King, He counsels a divorce, a loss of her That like a jewel has hung twenty years About his neck, yet never lost her luster; Of her that loves him with that excellence That angels love good men with; even of her That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls, Will bless the King.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 12)
Calphurnia here, my wife, stays me at home. She dreamt tonight she saw my statue, Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts, Did run pure blood; and many lusty Romans Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 36)
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent Against th' invulnerable clouds of heaven, And with a blessed and unvexed retire, With unbacked swords and helmets all unbruised, We will bear home that lusty blood again Which here we came to spout against your town, And leave your children, wives, and you in peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 85)
Our colors do return in those same hands That did display them when we first marched forth, And like a jolly troop of huntsmen come Our lusty English, all with purpled hands, Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes.(King John, Act 0, Scene 108)
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty, Where should he find it fairer than in Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 144)
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood? He speaks plain cannon fire, and smoke, and bounce.(King John, Act 0, Scene 155)
The magnanimous and most illustrate King Cophetua set eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar Zenelophon; and he it was that might rightly say "Veni, vidi, vici," which to annothanize in the vulgar base and obscure vulgar!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 32)
When a man's overlusty at legs, then he wears wooden netherstocks.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 4)
Lechery, by this hand! An index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 104)
Now, do love her too, Not out of absolute lust (though peradventure stand accountant for as great a sin) But partly led to diet my revenge For that do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leaped into my seat--the thought whereof Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards, And nothing can or shall content my soul Till am evened with him, wife for wife, Or, failing so, yet that put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 118)
Three else of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits That hold their honors in a wary distance, The very elements of this warlike isle, Have tonight flustered with flowing cups; And they watch too.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 23)
For whiles this honest fool Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune, And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor, I'll pour this pestilence into his ear: That she repeals him for her body's lust; And by how much she strives to do him good, She shall undo her credit with the Moor.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 149)
Patience, good sir, Even for this charge.  Now mild may be thy life, For a more blusterous birth had never babe.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 13)
An he speak anything against me, I'll take him down, an he were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 60)
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench. love her ten times more than ere did.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 64)
There serve your lust, shadowed from heaven's eye, And revel in Lavinia's treasury.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 50)
-- promised your Grace a hunter's peal.   And you have rung it lustily, my lords-- Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 5)
And if she do, would were an eunuch! Drag hence her husband to some secret hole, And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 40)
keep me from their worse-than-killing lust, And tumble me into some loathsome pit Where never man's eye may behold my body.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 63)
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.   Away, for thou hast stayed us here too long!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 65)
How lush and lusty the grass looks! How green!  The ground indeed is tawny.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 20)
His bold head 'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oared Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke To th' shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed, As stooping to relieve him.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 45)
I'll bring thee To clustering filberts, and sometimes I'll get thee Young scamels from the rock.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 85)
What had we been, old in the court of Creon, Where sin is justice, lust and ignorance The virtues of the great ones?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 31)
Shall we be lusty?  All the boys in Athens blow wind i' th' breech on 's.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 19)
But his body And fiery mind illustrate a brave father.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 14)
Reason and respect Make livers pale and lustihood deject.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 14)
How shall be revenged on him? think the best way were to entertain him with hope till the wicked fire of lust have melted him in his own grease.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 29)
If word nor oath Prevail not, go and see. If you can bring Tincture or luster in her lip, her eye, Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you As would do the gods.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 59)
My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh, And this soft courage makes your followers faint.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 20)
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts, For yet is hope of life and victory.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 16)
Thy daemon--that thy spirit which keeps thee--is Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable, Where Caesar's is not.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 9)
Thy life is dear, for all that life can rate Worth name of life in thee hath estimate: Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all That happiness and prime can happy call.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 68)
could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel and to cry like a woman, but must comfort the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 1)
Therefore courage, good Aliena.  pray you bear with me.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 2)
You are most hot and furious when you win.  Winning will put any man into courage.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 2)
Our countrymen Are men more ordered than when Julius Caesar Smiled at their lack of skill but found their courage Worthy his frowning at.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 7)
Their discipline, Now winged with their courages, will make known To their approvers they are people such That mend upon the world.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 8)
--Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins.-- Boy, bristle thy courage up.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 2)
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Brittany, Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth, And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch, To line and new-repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 1)
How much unlooked-for is this expedition.   By how much unexpected, by so much We must awake endeavor for defense, For courage mounteth with occasion.(King John, Act 0, Scene 25)
If it be honest you have spoke, you have courage to maintain it.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 71)
Bottom! most courageous day! most happy hour!  Masters, am to discourse wonders.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 13)
" Well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack. "Fia!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 3)
Now, by the gods, do applaud his courage.   My actions are as noble as my thoughts, That never relished of a base descent.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 25)
Now the good gods throw their best eyes upon 't.     What courage, sir?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 17)
More than prince of cats. he's the courageous captain of compliments.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 7)
Why, brother Hector, We may not think the justness of each act Such and no other than event doth form it, Nor once deject the courage of our minds Because Cassandra's mad.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 40)
But, worthy Hector, She is a theme of honor and renown, spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds, Whose present courage may beat down our foes, And fame in time to come canonize us; For presume brave Hector would not lose So rich advantage of a promised glory As smiles upon the forehead of this action For the wide world's revenue.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 63)
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes, New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo, Whom proclaim a man of truth, of mercy; For, being transported by my jealousies To bloody thoughts and to revenge, chose Camillo for the minister to poison My friend Polixenes, which had been done But that the good mind of Camillo tardied My swift command, though with death and with Reward did threaten and encourage him, Not doing it and being done.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 45)
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off, Lest, bleeding, you do paint the white rose red, And fall on my side so against your will.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 15)
Fair Beatrice, thank you for your pains.  took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 95)
If it had been painful, would not have come.  You take pleasure then in the message?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 96)
" There's a double meaning in that. took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 100)
" That's as much as to say "Any pains that take for you is as easy as thanks.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 101)
Yea, or to paint himself? For the which hear what they say of him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 21)
Disloyal?  The word is too good to paint out her wickedness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 40)
Seest thou not, say, what a deformed thief this fashion is, how giddily he turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty, sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers in the reechy painting, sometimes like god Bel's priests in the old church window, sometimes like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 53)
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon, The other way 's a Mars.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 57)
My duty, then, shall pay me for my pains. will no more enforce mine office on you, Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts modest one to bear me back again.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 50)
must not hear thee. Fare thee well, kind maid. Thy pains, not used, must by thyself be paid.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 58)
would it were hell pains for thy sake, and my poor doing eternal; for doing am past, as will by thee in what motion age will give me leave.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 96)
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?  Ay, madam, And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 24)
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile, Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp?(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 0)
It is not so with thee. But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree That cannot so much as a blossom yield In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 24)
Alone he entered The mortal gate o' th' city, which he painted With shunless destiny; aidless came off And with a sudden reinforcement struck Corioles like a planet.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 41)
Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains For purchasing but trouble.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 38)
wretched soul bruised with adversity We bid be quiet when we hear it cry, But were we burdened with like weight of pain, As much or more we should ourselves complain.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 14)
If you went in pain, master, this knave would go sore.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 45)
Where Spain?  Faith, saw it not, but felt it hot in her breath.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 52)
Where America, the Indies?  sir, upon her nose, all o'erembellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole armadas of carracks to be ballast at her nose.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 53)
Ferdinand, My father, King of Spain, was reckoned one The wisest prince that there had reigned by many year before.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 22)
Wherefore humbly Beseech you, sir, to spare me till may Be by my friends in Spain advised, whose counsel will implore.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 24)
So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood And, like a neutral to his will and matter, Did nothing.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 174)
thank you for your pains and courtesy.    See, Antony that revels long a-nights Is notwithstanding up.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 52)
With him along is come the Mother Queen, An Ate stirring him to blood and strife; With her her niece, the Lady Blanche of Spain; With them a bastard of the King's deceased.(King John, Act 0, Scene 20)
But on the sight of us your lawful king, Who painfully with much expedient march Have brought a countercheck before your gates To save unscratched your city's threatened cheeks, Behold, the French, amazed, vouchsafe a parle.(King John, Act 0, Scene 79)
We are bent to hear.   That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanche, Is near to England.(King John, Act 0, Scene 142)
Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean, Needs not the painted flourish of your praise.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 4)
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet, You are not ignorant all-telling fame Doth noise abroad Navarre hath made a vow, Till painful study shall outwear three years, No woman may approach his silent court.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 7)
How meanest thou? Brawling in French?  No, my complete master, but to jig off a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humor it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and sing a note, sometimes through the throat as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometimes through the nose as if you snuffed up love by smelling love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in your pocket like a man after the old painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 4)
Not fair? Alack, for woe!   Yes, madam, fair.  Nay, never paint me now.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 8)
stonecutter or a painter could not have made him so ill, though they had been but two years o' th' trade.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 23)
The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures. 'Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 30)
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes and unprovokes.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 14)
The labor we delight in physics pain. This is the door.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 24)
You say seven years together?  And a half, sir.  Alas, it hath been great pains to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 105)
So.   And his offense is so, as it appears, Accountant to the law upon that pain.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 34)
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?  Come your ways, sir, come.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 36)
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs And light them at the fiery glowworms' eyes To have my love to bed and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 65)
How low am thou painted maypole? Speak! How low am am not yet so low But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 124)
Pray thee take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior be misconstered in the place go to, And lose my hopes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 70)
Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 14)
Here in her hairs The painter plays the spider, and hath woven golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats in cobwebs.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 47)
My money is almost spent, have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled, and think the issue will be shall have so much experience for my pains, and so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 152)
'Tis most strange Nature should be so conversant with pain, Being thereto not compelled.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 10)
Your Honor has through Ephesus poured forth Your charity, and hundreds call themselves Your creatures, who by you have been restored; And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon Such strong renown, as time shall never--      So, lift there.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 14)
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain, For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 3)
Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face, Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 32)
Here is for thy pains.   No, truly, sir, not a penny.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 73)
Farewell. Be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains. Farewell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 76)
Was it not to refresh the mind of man After his studies or his usual pain?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 5)
Gentlemen and friends, thank you for your pains.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 58)
That's because the one is painted, and the other out of all count.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 22)
How painted? And how out of count?  Marry, sir, so painted to make her fair, that no man counts of her beauty.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 23)
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?   No, madam.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 42)
This minion stood upon her chastity, Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty, And with that painted hope braves your mightiness; And shall she carry this unto her grave?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 39)
-- Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison. There let them bide until we have devised Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 105)
strange fish. Were in England now, as once was, and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 12)
There be some sports are painful, and their labor Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone; and most poor matters Point to rich ends.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 0)
She returns this ring to you, sir. You might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 2)
There's for thy pains.  No pains, sir. take pleasure in singing, sir.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 27)
Where are our friends and kindreds? Never more Must we behold those comforts, never see The hardy youths strive for the games of honor, Hung with the painted favors of their ladies, Like tall ships under sail; then start amongst 'em And as an east wind leave 'em all behind us, Like lazy clouds, whilst Palamon and Arcite, Even in the wagging of a wanton leg, Outstripped the people's praises, won the garlands Ere they have time to wish 'em ours.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 3)
It is the very emblem of a maid. For when the west wind courts her gently, How modestly she blows and paints the sun With her chaste blushes!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 53)
Go to, then. Your considerate stone.   do not much dislike the matter, but The manner of his speech; for 't cannot be We shall remain in friendship, our conditions So diff'ring in their acts.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 44)
think so, too. But you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 48)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 65)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 69)
Prithee, put up.  noble shalt thou have, and present pay, and liquor likewise will give to thee, and friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 43)
chair, goes about the court, comes to the King,    Sir, desire you do me right and justice, And to bestow your pity on me; for am a most poor woman and a stranger, Born out of your dominions, having here No judge indifferent nor no more assurance Of equal friendship and proceeding.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 13)
But, in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 96)
If then the King your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied, We will give up our right in Aquitaine, And hold fair friendship with his Majesty.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 50)
All schooldays' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our needles created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 83)
Now tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?   My gracious lord, that which would discover The law of friendship bids me to conceal, But when call to mind your gracious favors Done to me, undeserving as am, My duty pricks me on to utter that Which else no worldly good should draw from me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 1)
Sure there cannot.   do not think it possible our friendship Should ever leave us.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 35)
desire you in friendship, and will one way or other make you amends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 34)
The purpose you undertake is dangerous, the friends you have named uncertain, the time itself unsorted, and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 4)
What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord, our plot is a good plot as ever was laid, our friends true and constant--a good plot, good friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot, very good friends.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 6)
Call you that backing of your friends? plague upon such backing!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 57)
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy, By whose approach the regions of Artois, Walloon, and Picardy are friends to us, This happy night the Frenchmen are secure, Having all day caroused and banqueted.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 2)
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses That shall maintain what have said is true, Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 23)
Look to it well, and say you are well warned.   Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still, And know us by these colors for thy foes, For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 36)
--Come, I'll be friends with thee, Jack. Thou art going to the wars, and whether shall ever see thee again or no, there is nobody cares.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 31)
then in London, keeper of the King, Mustered my soldiers, gathered flocks of friends, Marched toward Saint Albans to intercept the Queen, Bearing the King in my behalf along; For by my scouts was advertised That she was coming with a full intent To dash our late decree in Parliament Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 34)
But whether 'twas the coldness of the King, Who looked full gently on his warlike queen, That robbed my soldiers of their heated spleen, Or whether 'twas report of her success Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigor, Who thunders to his captives blood and death, cannot judge; but to conclude with truth, Their weapons like to lightning came and went; Our soldiers', like the night owl's lazy flight Or like an idle thresher with a flail, Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 36)
Their power, think, is thirty thousand strong. Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself, With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March, Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure, Will but amount to five and twenty thousand, Why, via, to London will we march, And once again bestride our foaming steeds, And once again cry "Charge!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 49)
Ah, cousin York, would thy best friends did know How it doth grieve me that thy head is here.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 19)
Fly, father, fly, for all your friends are fled, And Warwick rages like a chafed bull.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 38)
My love and fear glued many friends to thee; And now fall, thy tough commixtures melts, Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 2)
What, not an oath? Nay, then, the world goes hard When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 28)
What is it, my good friends?  Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 3)
do not know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa.  Noble friends, That which combined us was most great, and let not leaner action rend us.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 8)
Go to, then. Your considerate stone.   do not much dislike the matter, but The manner of his speech; for 't cannot be We shall remain in friendship, our conditions So diff'ring in their acts.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 44)
Will 't please you hear me?   have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well, Or friends with Caesar or not captive to him, I'll set thee in a shower of gold and hail Rich pearls upon thee.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 19)
Madam, he's well.  Well said.   And friends with Caesar.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 20)
Th' art an honest man.   Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 21)
Prithee, friend, Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear, The good and bad together: he's friends with Caesar, In state of health, thou say'st, and, thou say'st, free.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 25)
To you all three, The senators alone of this great world, Chief factors for the gods: do not know Wherefore my father should revengers want, Having a son and friends, since Julius Caesar, Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted, There saw you laboring for him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 2)
think so, too. But you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 48)
But what? We are friends! Come down into the boat.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 64)
The solemn feast Shall more attend upon the coming space, Expecting absent friends.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 73)
Here he comes. pray you make us friends. will pursue the amity.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 5)
" Then, being there alone, Left and abandoned of his velvet friends: "'Tis right," quoth he.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 14)
Why, how now, monsieur? What a life is this That your poor friends must woo your company?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 4)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 65)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 69)
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.  Pray you, who does the wolf love?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 2)
Your enigma?  You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 36)
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.   twice five hundred, and their friends to piece 'em.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 86)
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends They have chose a consul that will from them take Their liberties, make them of no more voice Than dogs that are as often beat for barking As therefor kept to do so.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 87)
There's an Italian come, and 'tis thought one of Leonatus' friends.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 16)
Make not, sir, Your loss your sport. hope you know that we Must not continue friends.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 20)
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?  For my part, care not.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 1)
will bestow a breakfast to make you friends, and we'll be all three sworn brothers to France.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 5)
Come, shall make you two friends? We must to France together.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 35)
Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends; an thou wilt not, why then be enemies with me too.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 42)
Prithee, put up.  noble shalt thou have, and present pay, and liquor likewise will give to thee, and friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 43)
You see this chase is hotly followed, friends.   Turn head and stop pursuit, for coward dogs Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten Runs far before them.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 19)
You few that loved me And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham, His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave Is only bitter to him, only dying, Go with me like good angels to my end, And as the long divorce of steel falls on me, Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice, And lift my soul to heaven.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 30)
Heaven has an end in all; yet, you that hear me, This from a dying man receive as certain: Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends And give your hearts to, when they once perceive The least rub in your fortunes, fall away Like water from you, never found again But where they mean to sink you.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 50)
chair, goes about the court, comes to the King,    Sir, desire you do me right and justice, And to bestow your pity on me; for am a most poor woman and a stranger, Born out of your dominions, having here No judge indifferent nor no more assurance Of equal friendship and proceeding.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 13)
Or which of your friends Have not strove to love, although knew He were mine enemy?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 17)
Wherefore humbly Beseech you, sir, to spare me till may Be by my friends in Spain advised, whose counsel will implore.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 24)
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him, As thus: know his father and his friends And, in part, him.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 4)
Well, we shall sift him.     Welcome, my good friends.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 19)
My honored lord.  My most dear lord.  My excellent good friends!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 77)
Let me question more in particular. What have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison hither?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 85)
But, in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 96)
To visit you, my lord, no other occasion.  Beggar that am, am even poor in thanks; but thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 97)
--Welcome, good friends.--O my old friend! Why, thy face is valanced since saw thee last.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 155)
Take them in.  Come, sirs.  Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play tomorrow.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 190)
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to Elsinore.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 194)
But, alas, Caesar must bleed for it. And, gentle friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 61)
And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 81)
Caesar, will.  And so near will be That your best friends shall wish had been further.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 57)
Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me, And we, like friends, will straightway go together.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 58)
Your royal presences, be ruled by me: Do like the mutines of Jerusalem, Be friends awhile, and both conjointly bend Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town.(King John, Act 0, Scene 127)
If then the King your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied, We will give up our right in Aquitaine, And hold fair friendship with his Majesty.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 50)
Farewell, father.   God's benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 17)
The more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 56)
All schooldays' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our needles created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 83)
Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 51)
would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends That purpose merriment.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 74)
Here comes Lorenzo. More of this hereafter.   Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 7)
'Tis nine o'clock! Our friends all stay for you. No masque tonight; the wind is come about; Bassanio presently will go aboard.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 27)
He hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million, laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine enemies-- and what's his reason?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 19)
Here are severed lips Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar Should sunder such sweet friends.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 46)
Though for myself alone would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better, yet for you would be trebled twenty times myself, thousand times more fair, ten thousand times More rich, that only to stand high in your account might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed account.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 57)
By your leave, bid my very friends and countrymen, Sweet Portia, welcome.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 79)
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer; Since you are dear bought, will love you dear.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 115)
Our friends, at least.  pray you, sir, go forth, And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 22)
Come. Let us to the castle.-- News, friends! Our wars are done.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 77)
they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 16)
An armor, friends? pray you let me see it.  Thanks, Fortune, yet, that after all thy crosses Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself; And though it was mine own, part of my heritage Which my dead father did bequeath to me With this strict charge even as he left his life, "Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield 'Twixt me and death," and pointed to this brace, "For that it saved me, keep it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 47)
What mean you, sir?   To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth, For it was sometime target to a king; know it by this mark.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 51)
His face thou hast, for even so looked he, Accomplished with the number of thy hours; But when he frowned, it was against the French And not against his friends.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 55)
And that is worse, The Lord Northumberland, his son young Harry Percy, The Lords of Ross, Beaumont, and Willoughby, With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 21)
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made; Now shall he try his friends that flattered him.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 33)
thank thee, gentle Percy, and be sure count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends; And as my fortune ripens with thy love, It shall be still thy true love's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 15)
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are. Things past redress are now with me past care.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 62)
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes, And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 8)
every day expect an embassage From my Redeemer to redeem me hence, And more in peace my soul shall part to heaven Since have made my friends at peace on Earth.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 2)
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot, For then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel; then the King Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 9)
told you, he was a frantic fool, Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior, And, to be noted for a merry man, He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage, Make friends, invite, and proclaim the banns, Yet never means to wed where he hath wooed.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 4)
Gentlemen and friends, thank you for your pains.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 58)
Neighbors and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table, You know there wants no junkets at the feast.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 86)
What say you to a letter from your friends Of much good news?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 20)
Now tell me, how do all from whence you came?   Your friends are well and have them much commended.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 49)
Now tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?   My gracious lord, that which would discover The law of friendship bids me to conceal, But when call to mind your gracious favors Done to me, undeserving as am, My duty pricks me on to utter that Which else no worldly good should draw from me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 1)
Please it your Grace, there is a messenger That stays to bear my letters to my friends, And am going to deliver them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 13)
But she mean is promised by her friends Unto a youthful gentleman of worth And kept severely from resort of men, That no man hath access by day to her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 31)
Do so, my friends.-- See them well entertained.  Pray, draw near.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 21)
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack To think shall lack friends?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 77)
For by these Shall try friends. You shall perceive how you Mistake my fortunes.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 80)
am wealthy in my friends.-- Within there! Flaminius!(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 81)
When he was poor, Imprisoned, and in scarcity of friends, cleared him with five talents.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 97)
Ne'er speak or think That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 100)
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised, Gave you a dancing rapier by your side, Are you so desperate grown to threat your friends?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 11)
Nor me, so were one.   For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 40)
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends. Tamora, was ever heard the like?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 102)
Give me some music.  Now, good morrow, friends.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 0)
Where are our friends and kindreds? Never more Must we behold those comforts, never see The hardy youths strive for the games of honor, Hung with the painted favors of their ladies, Like tall ships under sail; then start amongst 'em And as an east wind leave 'em all behind us, Like lazy clouds, whilst Palamon and Arcite, Even in the wagging of a wanton leg, Outstripped the people's praises, won the garlands Ere they have time to wish 'em ours.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 3)
And here being thus together, We are an endless mine to one another; We are one another's wife, ever begetting New births of love; we are father, friends, acquaintance; We are, in one another, families; am your heir, and you are mine.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 22)
Sure there cannot.   do not think it possible our friendship Should ever leave us.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 35)
By your leaves, honest friends: pray you, whither go you?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 27)
After so many hours, lives, speeches spent, Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks: "Deliver Helen, and all damage else-- As honor, loss of time, travel, expense, Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consumed In hot digestion of this cormorant war-- Shall be struck off.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 0)
have grated upon my good friends for three reprieves for you and your coach-fellow Nym, or else you had looked through the grate like a gemini of baboons.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 2)
am damned in hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 3)
desire you in friendship, and will one way or other make you amends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 34)
This is well! He has made us his vloutingstog. desire you that we may be friends, and let us knog our prains together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging companion, the Host of the Garter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 48)
This is a stem Of that victorious stock, and let us fear The native mightiness and fate of him.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 16)
Why, this it is! See, see! have been begging sixteen years in court, Am yet a courtier beggarly, nor could Come pat betwixt too early and too late For any suit of pounds; and you--O, fate!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 32)
What should be spoken here, where our fate, Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 57)
Take my defiance; Die, perish. Might but my bending down Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 53)
Then fate o'errules, that, one man holding troth, million fail, confounding oath on oath.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 35)
If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be most happy, for fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 72)
--Live, And make us weep to hear your fate, fair creature, Rare as you seem to be.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 42)
The malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 2)
Thy fates open their hands. Let thy blood and spirit embrace them.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 57)
Come, and be hanged. Hast no faith in thee?     Good morrow, carriers.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 15)
Nay, by God, soft. know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 17)
Nay, by my faith, think you are more beholding to the night than to fern seed for your walking invisible.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 37)
You are grandjurors, are you? We'll jure you, faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 45)
In faith, I'll know your business, Harry, that will.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 31)
In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry, An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 34)
Not a whit, i' faith. lack some of thy instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 153)
Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!   Weep not, sweet queen, for trickling tears are vain.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 161)
What manner of man, an it like your Majesty?  goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a cheerful look, a pleasing eye, and a most noble carriage, and, as think, his age some fifty, or, by 'r Lady, inclining to threescore; and now remember me, his name is Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 174)
--Nay, I'll tickle you for a young prince, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 183)
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch, Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth, Between two blades, which bears the better temper, Between two horses, which doth bear him best, Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye, have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgment; But in these nice sharp quillets of the law, Good faith, am no wiser than a daw.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 5)
Alas the day, take heed of him. He stabbed me in mine own house, and that most beastly, in good faith.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 6)
faith, am loath to pawn my plate, so God save me, la.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 68)
Shall tell thee one thing, Poins?  Yes, faith, and let it be an excellent good thing.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 11)
faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 10)
But, i' faith, you have drunk too much canaries, and that's a marvellous searching wine, and it perfumes the blood ere one can say "What's this?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 12)
Sick of a calm, yea, good faith.  So is all her sect.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 17)
No, by my faith, must live among my neighbors. I'll no swaggerers.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 35)
was before Master Tisick the debuty t' other day, and, as he said to me--'twas no longer ago than Wednesday last, i' good faith--"Neighbor Quickly," says he--Master Dumb, our minister, was by then-- "Neighbor Quickly," says he, "receive those that are civil, for," said he, "you are in an ill name.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 42)
No, I'll no swaggerers.  He's no swaggerer, hostess, a tame cheater, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 46)
'Tis very late, i' faith. beseek you now, aggravate your choler.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 78)
Ah, rogue, i' faith, love thee. Thou art as valorous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the Nine Worthies.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 107)
faith, and thou followed'st him like a church. Thou whoreson little tidy Bartholomew boar-pig, when wilt thou leave fighting a-days and foining a-nights and begin to patch up thine old body for heaven?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 112)
No abuse, Hal.--None, Ned, none. No, faith, boys, none.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 148)
Drink, and fear not your man.  Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 25)
In faith, she's too curst.  Too curst is more than curst.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 6)
Yes, faith, it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy and say "Father, as it please you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 18)
Let every eye negotiate for itself And trust no agent, for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 71)
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith, you say honestly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 94)
faith, lady, think your blazon to be true, though I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 118)
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.  Yea, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 127)
Ha, no, no, faith, thou sing'st well enough for a shift.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 28)
like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 4)
An old man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, would desire they were, but, in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 4)
" God help us, it is a world to see!--Well said, i' faith, neighbor Verges.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 13)
An honest soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread, but God is to be worshiped, all men are not alike, alas, good neighbor.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 15)
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 26)
Good faith, across. But, my good lord, 'tis thus: will you be cured Of your infirmity?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 32)
Now, by my faith and honor, If seriously may convey my thoughts In this my light deliverance, have spoke With one that in her sex, her years, profession, Wisdom, and constancy hath amazed me more Than dare blame my weakness.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 36)
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should speak truth of it.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 11)
have not, my lord, deserved it.  Yes, good faith, ev'ry dram of it, and will not bate thee a scruple.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 91)
good knave, i' faith, and well fed. Madam, my lord will go away tonight; very serious business calls on him.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 14)
Assuredly the thing is to be sold. Go with me. If you like upon report The soil, the profit, and this kind of life, will your very faithful feeder be And buy it with your gold right suddenly.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 36)
If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son, As you have whispered faithfully you were, And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limned and living in your face, Be truly welcome hither.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 71)
You are three That Rome should dote on; yet, by the faith of men, We have some old crab trees here at home that will not Be grafted to your relish.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 81)
And, think, if my breast had not been made of faith, and my heart of steel, She had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' th' wheel.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 56)
They shall be apprehended by and by.   How smooth and even they do bear themselves, As if allegiance in their bosoms sat Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 12)
Never did faithful subject more rejoice At the discovery of most dangerous treason Than do at this hour joy o'er myself, Prevented from a damned enterprise.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 65)
Let senses rule. The word is "Pitch and pay." Trust none, for oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes, and Holdfast is the only dog, my duck.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 23)
Yet heaven bear witness, And if have a conscience, let it sink me Even as the ax falls, if be not faithful!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 25)
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most-- most unnatural and faithless service.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 49)
Good angels keep it from us! What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 57)
This secret is so weighty 'twill require strong faith to conceal it.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 58)
In faith, for little England You'd venture an emballing.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 17)
will be faithful.  Doubt thou the stars are fire, Doubt that the sun doth move, Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt love.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 38)
As of a man faithful and honorable.   would fain prove so.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 43)
faith, will, i' faith!   well did he become that lion's robe That did disrobe the lion of that robe.(King John, Act 0, Scene 49)
And now, instead of bullets wrapped in fire To make a shaking fever in your walls, They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke To make a faithless error in your ears, Which trust accordingly, kind citizens, And let us in.(King John, Act 0, Scene 80)
And by my faith, this league that we have made Will give her sadness very little cure.(King John, Act 0, Scene 185)
Mad world, mad kings, mad composition! John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole, Hath willingly departed with a part; And France, whose armor conscience buckled on, Whom zeal and charity brought to the field As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil, That broker that still breaks the pate of faith, That daily break-vow, he that wins of all, Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids-- Who having no external thing to lose But the word "maid," cheats the poor maid of that-- That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity, Commodity, the bias of the world-- The world, who of itself is peised well, Made to run even upon even ground, Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias, This sway of motion, this Commodity, Makes it take head from all indifferency, From all direction, purpose, course, intent.(King John, Act 0, Scene 192)
Since kings break faith upon Commodity, Gain, be my lord, for will worship thee!(King John, Act 0, Scene 197)
You do the King my father too much wrong, And wrong the reputation of your name, In so unseeming to confess receipt Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 53)
Wide o' the bow hand! faith, your hand is out.   Indeed, he must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 72)
He replied "Thou unpossessing bastard, dost thou think If would stand against thee, would the reposal Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee Make thy words faithed?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 28)
Sir, in good faith, in sincere verity, Under th' allowance of your great aspect, Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire On flick'ring Phoebus' front--  What mean'st by this?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 40)
you beast! faithless coward, dishonest wretch, Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 50)
Art going to prison, Pompey?  Yes, faith, sir.  Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 26)
Didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna, whom he ravished, And make him with fair Aegles break his faith, With Ariadne and Antiopa?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 24)
How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 50)
Helen, it is not so.   Disparage not the faith thou dost not know, Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 73)
Fine, i' faith. Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 119)
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 33)
But, my good lord, wot not by what power (But by some power it is) my love to Hermia, Melted as the snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood did dote upon, And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 62)
know the hand; in faith, 'tis a fair hand, And whiter than the paper it writ on Is the fair hand that writ.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 5)
Love news, in faith!  By your leave, sir.  Whither goest thou?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 6)
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven, It will be for his gentle daughter's sake; And never dare misfortune cross her foot Unless she do it under this excuse, That she is issue to a faithless Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 14)
ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love's bonds new-made than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 2)
And when your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, do beseech you Even at that time may be married too.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 66)
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?  Yes, faith, my lord.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 73)
Alas, she has no speech!  In faith, too much. find it still when have list to sleep.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 39)
Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as am a soldier.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 27)
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee!(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 7)
gentle Romeo, If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 36)
Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 49)
You say well.  Yea, is the worst well? Very well took, i' faith, wisely, wisely.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 50)
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. protest unto thee--  Good heart, and i' faith will tell her as much.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 69)
faith, am sorry that thou art not well. Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 30)
They call me Katherine that do talk of me.   You lie, in faith, for you are called plain Kate, And bonny Kate, and sometimes Kate the curst.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 76)
Come, come, you wasp! faith, you are too angry.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 85)
Marian, say, a stoup of wine!     Here comes the Fool, i' faith.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 5)
'Twas very good, i' faith. sent thee sixpence for thy leman.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 10)
Excellent good, i' faith!  Good, good.   What is love?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 20)
contagious breath.  Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 24)
Good, i' faith. Come, begin.     What a caterwauling do you keep here!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 33)
The devil a puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass that cons state without book and utters it by great swaths; the best persuaded of himself, so crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is his grounds of faith that all that look on him love him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 66)
What years, i' faith?  About your years, my lord.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 11)
In faith, they are as true of heart as we. My father had a daughter loved a man As it might be, perhaps, were a woman, should your Lordship.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 42)
faith, or either?  Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 80)
--Dearest beauty, Thus let me seal my vowed faith.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 23)
If you serve faithfully, dare assure you You'll find a loving mistress.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 32)
" Praise her but for this her without-door form, Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight The shrug, the "hum," or "ha," these petty brands That calumny doth use--O, am out, That mercy does, for calumny will sear Virtue itself--these shrugs, these "hum"s and "ha"s, When you have said she's goodly, come between Ere you can say she's honest.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 33)
Silence!  Read the indictment.  Hermione, queen to the worthy Leontes, King of Sicilia, thou art here accused and arraigned of high treason, in committing adultery with Polixenes, King of Bohemia, and conspiring with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign lord the King, thy royal husband; the pretense whereof being by circumstances partly laid open, thou, Hermione, contrary to the faith and allegiance of a true subject, didst counsel and aid them, for their better safety, to fly away by night.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 3)
What a frosty-spirited rogue is this! Why, my Lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the action.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 7)
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war, And thus hath so bestirred thee in thy sleep, That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream, And in thy face strange motions have appeared, Such as we see when men restrain their breath On some great sudden hest.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 21)
But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible afeard? Thou being heir apparent, could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 151)
Well, let them practice and converse with spirits.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 7)
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch, Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth, Between two blades, which bears the better temper, Between two horses, which doth bear him best, Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye, have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgment; But in these nice sharp quillets of the law, Good faith, am no wiser than a daw.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 5)
You have, as it appears to me, practiced upon the easy-yielding spirit of this woman, and made her serve your uses both in purse and in person.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 51)
But never said so.  Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 56)
Beshrew your heart, Fair daughter, you do draw my spirits from me With new lamenting ancient oversights.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 14)
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?   Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold: sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent, Under the countenance and confederacy Of Lady Eleanor, the Protector's wife, The ringleader and head of all this rout, Have practiced dangerously against your state, Dealing with witches and with conjurers, Whom we have apprehended in the fact, Raising up wicked spirits from under ground, Demanding of King Henry's life and death And other of your Highness' Privy Council, As more at large your Grace shall understand.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 79)
My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh, And this soft courage makes your followers faint.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 20)
cry you mercy, uncle.--By your Grace's pardon.  By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 140)
would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 42)
measure him," says she, "by my own spirit, for should flout him if he writ to me, yea, though love him, should.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 53)
She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it, for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 65)
--  No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful. know her spirits are as coy and wild As haggards of the rock.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 13)
Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops--  Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 22)
As for my wife, would you had her spirit in such another.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 25)
Thy daemon--that thy spirit which keeps thee--is Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable, Where Caesar's is not.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 9)
Thy luster thickens When he shines by. say again, thy spirit Is all afraid to govern thee near him; But he away, 'tis noble.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 13)
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak His powerful sound within an organ weak, And what impossibility would slay In common sense, sense saves another way.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 67)
'Fore me, speak in respect--  Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange; that is the brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most facinorous spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--  Very hand of heaven.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 11)
Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!  care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 0)
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie, Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 67)
Now all's his, When by and by the din of war gan pierce His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit Requickened what in flesh was fatigate, And to the battle came he, where he did Run reeking o'er the lives of men as if 'Twere a perpetual spoil; and till we called Both field and city ours, he never stood To ease his breast with panting.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 42)
Thus to have said, As you were fore-advised, had touched his spirit And tried his inclination; from him plucked Either his gracious promise, which you might, As cause had called you up, have held him to; Or else it would have galled his surly nature, Which easily endures not article Tying him to aught.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 80)
Thy spirits are most tall.  will cut thy throat one time or other in fair terms, that is the humor of it.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 27)
Seem they religious? Why, so didst thou. Or are they spare in diet, Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger, Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood, Garnished and decked in modest complement, Not working with the eye without the ear, And but in purged judgment trusting neither?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 56)
must tell you, You tender more your person's honor than Your high profession spiritual, that again do refuse you for my judge, and here, Before you all, appeal unto the Pope To bring my whole cause 'fore his Holiness, And to be judged by him.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 44)
If he do blench, know my course. The spirit that have seen May be a devil, and the devil hath power assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps, Out of my weakness and my melancholy, As he is very potent with such spirits, Abuses me to damn me.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 210)
But if these-- As am sure they do--bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 47)
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, Old feeble carrions, and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath, when every drop of blood That every Roman bears, and nobly bears, Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 50)
Let's be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 59)
that we then could come by Caesar's spirit And not dismember Caesar!(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 60)
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily. Let not our looks put on our purposes, But bear it, as our Roman actors do, With untired spirits and formal constancy.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 82)
Soul of Rome, Brave son derived from honorable loins, Thou like an exorcist hast conjured up My mortified spirit.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 122)
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er Did never float upon the swelling tide To do offense and scathe in Christendom.(King John, Act 0, Scene 22)
Your king, whose labored spirits Forwearied in this action of swift speed, Craves harborage within your city walls.(King John, Act 0, Scene 81)
Back to the stained field, You equal potents, fiery-kindled spirits.(King John, Act 0, Scene 120)
Ladies (Rosaline, Maria, and Katherine), Boyet     Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 0)
Go after.  By no means what?   Persuade me to the murder of your Lordship, But that told him the revenging gods 'Gainst parricides did all the thunder bend, Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond The child was bound to th' father--sir, in fine, Seeing how loathly opposite stood To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion With his prepared sword he charges home My unprovided body, lanced mine arm; And when he saw my best alarumed spirits, Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to th' encounter, Or whether ghasted by the noise made, Full suddenly he fled.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 23)
What's your will, good friar?   Bound by my charity and my blest order, come to visit the afflicted spirits Here in the prison.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 1)
And shamed life a hateful.   Ay, but to die, and go we know not where, To lie in cold obstruction and to rot, This sensible warm motion to become kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice, To be imprisoned in the viewless winds And blown with restless violence round about The pendent world; or to be worse than worst Of those that lawless and incertain thought Imagine howling--'tis too horrible.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 47)
Let me hear you speak farther. have spirit to do anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 81)
How now, spirit? Whither wander you?   Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire; do wander everywhere, Swifter than the moon's sphere.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 0)
Farewell, thou lob of spirits. I'll be gone. Our queen and all her elves come here anon.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 4)
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit, For am sick when do look on thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 67)
2        Come, now a roundel and a fairy song; Then, for the third part of a minute, hence-- Some to kill cankers in the muskrose buds, Some war with reremice for their leathern wings To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders At our quaint spirits.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 0)
am a spirit of no common rate. The summer still doth tend upon my state, And do love thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 60)
And will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 62)
Here comes my messenger. How now, mad spirit? What night-rule now about this haunted grove?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 1)
Damned spirits all, That in crossways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 160)
But we are spirits of another sort. with the Morning's love have oft made sport And, like a forester, the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt-green streams.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 162)
Pray thee take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior be misconstered in the place go to, And lose my hopes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 70)
But adieu. These foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 6)
All things that are, Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 5)
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head Spets in the face of heaven, is no bar To stop the foreign spirits, but they come As o'er a brook to see fair Portia.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 18)
will not choose what many men desire, Because will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 12)
Like one of two contending in a prize That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise be his or no, So, thrice-fair lady, stand even so, As doubtful whether what see be true, Until confirmed, signed, ratified by you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 55)
But the full sum of me Is sum of something, which, to term in gross, Is an unlessoned girl, unschooled, unpracticed; Happy in this, she is not yet so old But she may learn; happier than this, She is not bred so dull but she can learn; Happiest of all, is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed As from her lord, her governor, her king.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 58)
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man, The best conditioned and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies, and one in whom The ancient Roman honor more appears Than any that draws breath in Italy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 106)
Great Jove, Othello guard, And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath, That he may bless this bay with his tall ship, Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms, Give renewed fire to our extincted spirits, And bring all Cyprus comfort!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 28)
Three else of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits That hold their honors in a wary distance, The very elements of this warlike isle, Have tonight flustered with flowing cups; And they watch too.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 23)
And discourse fustian with one's own shadow? thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 119)
Death may usurp on nature many hours, And yet the fire of life kindle again The o'erpressed spirits.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 32)
'Twould anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle Of some strange nature, letting it there stand Till she had laid it and conjured it down.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 9)
For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit! Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 10)
Why, no, for she hath broke the lute to me. did but tell her she mistook her frets, And bowed her hand to teach her fingering, When, with a most impatient devilish spirit, " 'Frets' call you these?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 62)
pray you do. I'll attend her here--  And woo her with some spirit when she comes!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 68)
see a woman may be made a fool If she had not a spirit to resist.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 74)
Valentine?  No.  Who then? His spirit?  Neither.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 64)
'Tis a spirit; sometime 't appears like a lord, sometime like a lawyer, sometime like a philosopher, with two stones more than 's artificial one.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 48)
He is very often like a knight, and generally in all shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore to thirteen, this spirit walks in.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 49)
find Not myself disposed to sleep.  Nor My spirits are nimble.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 77)
Thus, sir: Although this lord of weak remembrance--this, Who shall be of as little memory When he is earthed--hath here almost persuaded-- For he's a spirit of persuasion, only Professes to persuade--the King his son's alive, 'Tis as impossible that he's undrowned As he that sleeps here swims.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 92)
His spirits hear me, And yet needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch, Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire, Nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark Out of my way, unless he bid 'em.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 1)
Lo, now, lo! Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me For bringing wood in slowly.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 4)
The spirit torments me.  This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who hath got, as take it, an ague.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 28)
Remember First to possess his books, for without them He's but a sot, as am, nor hath not One spirit to command.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 45)
peace, and the spirit of humors intimate reading aloud to him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 31)
Thy fates open their hands. Let thy blood and spirit embrace them.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 57)
We are young and yet desire the ways of honor That liberty and common conversation, The poison of pure spirits, might like women Woo us to wander from.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 20)
Till our deaths it cannot.    And after death our spirits shall be led To those that love eternally.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 36)
There's not the meanest spirit on our party Without a heart to dare or sword to draw When Helen is defended, nor none so noble Whose life were ill bestowed or death unfamed Where Helen is the subject.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 52)
have a roisting challenge sent amongst The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 65)
What spirit, what devil suggests this imagination?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 89)
Now from the oracle They will bring all, whose spiritual counsel had Shall stop or spur me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 75)
He straight declined, drooped, took it deeply, Fastened and fixed the shame on 't in himself, Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep, And downright languished.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 5)
-- Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours. Jove send her better guiding spirit.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 51)
--Come on, poor babe.  Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens To be thy nurses!(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 77)
Welcome, Jack. Where hast thou been?  plague of all cowards, say, and a vengeance too!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 40)
That's a brave fellow, but he's vengeance proud and loves not the common people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 2)
vengeance, vengeance! Me of my lawful pleasure she restrained And prayed me oft forbearance; did it with pudency so rosy the sweet view on 't Might well have warmed old Saturn, that thought her As chaste as unsunned snow.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 3)
But as we often see against some storm silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, The bold winds speechless, and the orb below As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause, Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work, And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall On Mars's armor, forged for proof eterne, With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 175)
vengeance! Why, what an ass am This is most brave, That the son of a dear father murdered, Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell, Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words And fall a-cursing like a very drab, stallion!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 206)
If it be true, all vengeance comes too short Which can pursue th' offender.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 37)
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall On her ingrateful top!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 68)
No, Escanes, know this of me: Antiochus from incest lived not free, For which the most high gods not minding longer To withhold the vengeance that they had in store Due to this heinous capital offense, Even in the height and pride of all his glory, When he was seated in a chariot of An inestimable value, and his daughter with him, fire from heaven came and shriveled up Those bodies even to loathing, for they so stunk That all those eyes adored them, ere their fall, Scorn now their hand should give them burial.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 11)
vengeance on your crafty withered hide!-- Yet have faced it with a card of ten.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 168)
vengeance on 't, there 'tis! Now sir, this staff is my sister, for, look you, she is as white as a lily and as small as a wand.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 9)
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope. Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit To villainy and vengeance consecrate, Will we acquaint withal what we intend, And she shall file our engines with advice That will not suffer you to square yourselves, But to your wishes' height advance you both.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 47)
And had you not by wondrous fortune come, This vengeance on me had they executed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 33)
Banished the kingdom? 'Tis a benefit, mercy must thank 'em for; but banished The free enjoying of that face die for, 'twas a studied punishment, a death Beyond imagination--such a vengeance That, were old and wicked, all my sins Could never pluck upon me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 0)
My mind misgives me. This fellow has a vengeance trick o' th' hip.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 34)
It was thought meet Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 22)
After this, the vengeance on the whole camp! Or rather, the Neapolitan bone-ache!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 6)
Let him be Until a time may serve. For present vengeance, Take it on her.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 8)
--the Queen, the Queen, The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead, and vengeance for 't Not dropped down yet.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 57)
Heigh-ho! An it be not four by the day, I'll be hanged.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 0)
Charles's Wain is over the new chimney, and yet our horse not packed.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 1)
--What, ostler!  Anon, anon.  prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 2)
Put a few flocks in the point. Poor jade is wrung in the withers out of all cess.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 3)
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that is the next way to give poor jades the bots.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 4)
This house is turned upside down since Robin ostler died.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 5)
Poor fellow never joyed since the price of oats rose.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 6)
It was the death of him.  think this be the most villainous house in all London road for fleas.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 7)
am stung like a tench.  Like a tench? By the Mass, there is ne'er a king christen could be better bit than have been since the first cock.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 8)
Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we leak in your chimney, and your chamber-lye breeds fleas like a loach.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 9)
What, ostler, come away and be hanged. Come away.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 10)
have a gammon of bacon and two races of ginger to be delivered as far as Charing Cross.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 11)
God's body, the turkeys in my pannier are quite starved.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 12)
--What, ostler! plague on thee! Hast thou never an eye in thy head?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 13)
Canst not hear? An 'twere not as good deed as drink to break the pate on thee, am a very villain.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 14)
Come, and be hanged. Hast no faith in thee?     Good morrow, carriers.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 15)
What's o'clock?  think it be two o'clock.  prithee, lend me thy lantern to see my gelding in the stable.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 16)
Nay, by God, soft. know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 17)
pray thee, lend me thine.  Ay, when, canst tell?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 18)
"Lend me thy lantern," quoth he. Marry, I'll see thee hanged first.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 19)
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 20)
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, warrant thee.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 21)
Come, neighbor Mugs, we'll call up the gentlemen.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 22)
They will along with company, for they have great charge.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 23)
What ho, chamberlain!     At hand, quoth pickpurse.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 24)
That's even as fair as "at hand, quoth the Chamberlain," for thou variest no more from picking of purses than giving direction doth from laboring: thou layest the plot how.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 25)
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the Wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with him in gold.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 26)
heard him tell it to one of his company last night at supper--a kind of auditor, one that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 27)
They are up already and call for eggs and butter.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 28)
They will away presently.  Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas' clerks, I'll give thee this neck.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 29)
No, I'll none of it. pray thee, keep that for the hangman, for know thou worshipest Saint Nicholas as truly as a man of falsehood may.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 30)
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? If hang, I'll make a fat pair of gallows, for if hang, old Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no starveling.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 31)
Tut, there are other Troyans that thou dream'st not of, the which for sport sake are content to do the profession some grace, that would, if matters should be looked into, for their own credit sake make all whole.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 32)
am joined with no foot-land-rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers, none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms, but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and great oneyers, such as can hold in, such as will strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than drink, and drink sooner than pray, and yet, zounds, lie, for they pray continually to their saint the commonwealth, or rather not pray to her but prey on her, for they ride up and down on her and make her their boots.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 33)
What, the commonwealth their boots? Will she hold out water in foul way?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 34)
She will, she will. Justice hath liquored her. We steal as in a castle, cocksure.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 35)
We have the receipt of fern seed; we walk invisible.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 36)
Nay, by my faith, think you are more beholding to the night than to fern seed for your walking invisible.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 37)
Give me thy hand. Thou shalt have a share in our purchase, as am a true man.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 38)
Nay, rather let me have it as you are a false thief.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 39)
Go to. Homo is a common name to all men. Bid the ostler bring my gelding out of the stable.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 0, Scene 40)
Come, shelter, shelter! have removed Falstaff's horse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 0)
Stand close.     Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 1)
Peace, you fat-kidneyed rascal. What a brawling dost thou keep!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 2)
Where's Poins, Hal?  He is walked up to the top of the hill.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 3)
I'll go seek him.  am accursed to rob in that thief's company.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 4)
The rascal hath removed my horse and tied him know not where.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 5)
If travel but four foot by the square further afoot, shall break my wind.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 6)
Well, doubt not but to die a fair death for all this, if 'scape hanging for killing that rogue.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 7)
have forsworn his company hourly any time this two-and-twenty years, and yet am bewitched with the rogue's company.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 8)
If the rascal have not given me medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 9)
It could not be else: have drunk medicines.--Poins!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 10)
Hal! plague upon you both.--Bardolph! Peto!-- I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 11)
An 'twere not as good a deed as drink to turn true man and to leave these rogues, am the veriest varlet that ever chewed with a tooth.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 12)
Eight yards of uneven ground is threescore and ten miles afoot with me, and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 13)
plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 14)
Whew! plague upon you all!    Give me my horse, you rogues.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 15)
Give me my horse and be hanged!  Peace, you fat guts!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 16)
Lie down, lay thine ear close to the ground, and list if thou canst hear the tread of travelers.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 17)
Have you any levers to lift me up again being down?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 18)
'Sblood, I'll not bear my own flesh so far afoot again for all the coin in thy father's Exchequer.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 19)
What a plague mean you to colt me thus?  Thou liest.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 20)
Thou art not colted; thou art uncolted.  prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse, good king's son.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 21)
Out, you rogue! Shall be your ostler?  Hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent garters!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 22)
If be ta'en, I'll peach for this. An have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison--when a jest is so forward, and afoot too!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 23)
hate it.     Stand.  So do, against my will.  'tis our setter.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 24)
know his voice.  What news?  Case you, case you. On with your vizards.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 25)
There's money of the King's coming down the hill.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 26)
'Tis going to the King's Exchequer.  You lie, you rogue.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 27)
'Tis going to the King's Tavern.  There's enough to make us all.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 28)
To be hanged.  Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 29)
Ned Poins and will walk lower. If they 'scape from your encounter, then they light on us.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 30)
How many be there of them?  Some eight or ten.  Zounds, will they not rob us?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 31)
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?  Indeed, am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather, but yet no coward, Hal.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 32)
Well, we leave that to the proof.  Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 33)
When thou need'st him, there thou shalt find him.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 34)
Farewell and stand fast.  Now cannot strike him, if should be hanged.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 35)
Ned, where are our disguises?  Here, hard by. Stand close.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 36)
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say Every man to his business.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 37)
Come, neighbor, the boy shall lead our horses down the hill.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 38)
We'll walk afoot awhile and ease our legs.  Stand!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 39)
Jesus bless us!  Strike! Down with them! Cut the villains' throats!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 40)
Ah, whoreson caterpillars, bacon-fed knaves, they hate us youth.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 41)
Down with them! Fleece them!  we are undone, both we and ours forever!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 42)
Hang, you gorbellied knaves! Are you undone? No, you fat chuffs.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 43)
would your store were here. On, bacons, on! What, you knaves, young men must live.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 44)
You are grandjurors, are you? We'll jure you, faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 45)
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou and rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it would be argument for a week, laughter for a month, and a good jest forever.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 46)
Stand close, hear them coming.      Come, my masters, let us share, and then to horse before day.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 47)
An the Prince and Poins be not two arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 48)
There's no more valor in that Poins than in a wild duck.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 49)
Your money!  Villains!     Got with much ease.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 50)
Now merrily to horse. The thieves are all scattered, and possessed with fear So strongly that they dare not meet each other.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 51)
Each takes his fellow for an officer. Away, good Ned.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 52)
Falstaff sweats to death, And lards the lean earth as he walks along.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 53)
Were 't not for laughing, should pity him.  How the fat rogue roared!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 1, Scene 54)
2       But, for mine own part, my lord, could be well contented to be there, in respect of the love bear your house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 0)
He could be contented; why is he not, then? In respect of the love he bears our house--he shows in this he loves his own barn better than he loves our house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 1)
Let me see some more. The purpose you undertake is dangerous.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 2)
Why, that's certain. 'Tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to drink; but tell you, my Lord Fool, out of this nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 3)
The purpose you undertake is dangerous, the friends you have named uncertain, the time itself unsorted, and your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so great an opposition.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 4)
Say you so, say you so? say unto you again, you are a shallow, cowardly hind, and you lie.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 5)
What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord, our plot is a good plot as ever was laid, our friends true and constant--a good plot, good friends, and full of expectation; an excellent plot, very good friends.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 6)
What a frosty-spirited rogue is this! Why, my Lord of York commends the plot and the general course of the action.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 7)
Zounds, an were now by this rascal, could brain him with his lady's fan.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 8)
Is there not my father, my uncle, and myself, Lord Edmund Mortimer, my Lord of York, and Owen Glendower?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 9)
Is there not besides the Douglas? Have not all their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the next month, and are they not some of them set forward already?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 10)
What a pagan rascal is this--an infidel! Ha, you shall see now, in very sincerity of fear and cold heart, will he to the King and lay open all our proceedings.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 11)
could divide myself and go to buffets for moving such a dish of skim milk with so honorable an action!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 12)
Hang him, let him tell the King. We are prepared.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 13)
will set forward tonight.    How now, Kate? must leave you within these two hours.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 14)
my good lord, why are you thus alone? For what offense have this fortnight been banished woman from my Harry's bed?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 15)
Tell me, sweet lord, what is 't that takes from thee Thy stomach, pleasure, and thy golden sleep?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 16)
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth And start so often when thou sit'st alone?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 17)
Why hast thou lost the fresh blood in thy cheeks And given my treasures and my rights of thee To thick-eyed musing and curst melancholy?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 18)
In thy faint slumbers by thee have watched, And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars, Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed, Cry "Courage!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 19)
To the field!" And thou hast talked Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents, Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets, Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin, Of prisoners' ransom, and of soldiers slain, And all the currents of a heady fight.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 20)
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war, And thus hath so bestirred thee in thy sleep, That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow Like bubbles in a late-disturbed stream, And in thy face strange motions have appeared, Such as we see when men restrain their breath On some great sudden hest.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 21)
what portents are these? Some heavy business hath my lord in hand, And must know it, else he loves me not.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 22)
What, ho!    Is Gilliams with the packet gone?  He is, my lord, an hour ago.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 23)
Hath Butler brought those horses from the sheriff?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 24)
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.   What horse?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 25)
roan, a crop-ear, is it not?   It is, my lord.  That roan shall be my throne.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 26)
Well, will back him straight. Esperance! Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 27)
But hear you, my lord.  What say'st thou, my lady?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 28)
What is it carries you away?  Why, my horse, my love, my horse.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 29)
Out, you mad-headed ape! weasel hath not such a deal of spleen As you are tossed with.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 30)
In faith, I'll know your business, Harry, that will.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 31)
fear my brother Mortimer doth stir About his title, and hath sent for you To line his enterprise; but if you go--   So far afoot, shall be weary, love.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 32)
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me Directly unto this question that ask.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 33)
In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry, An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 34)
Away! Away, you trifler. Love, love thee not. care not for thee, Kate.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 35)
This is no world To play with mammets and to tilt with lips.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 36)
We must have bloody noses and cracked crowns, And pass them current too.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 37)
--Gods me, my horse!-- What say'st thou, Kate? What wouldst thou have with me?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 38)
Do you not love me? Do you not indeed? Well, do not then, for since you love me not, will not love myself.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 39)
Do you not love me? Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 40)
Come, wilt thou see me ride? And when am a-horseback will swear love thee infinitely.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 41)
But hark you, Kate, must not have you henceforth question me Whither go, nor reason whereabout.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 42)
Whither must, must; and to conclude This evening must leave you, gentle Kate.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 43)
know you wise, but yet no farther wise Than Harry Percy's wife; constant you are, But yet a woman; and for secrecy No lady closer, for well believe Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know, And so far will trust thee, gentle Kate.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 44)
How? So far?   Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate, Whither go, thither shall you go too.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 45)
Today will set forth, tomorrow you. Will this content you, Kate?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 2, Scene 46)
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room and lend me thy hand to laugh a little.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 0)
Where hast been, Hal?  With three or four loggerheads amongst three or fourscore hogsheads.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 1)
have sounded the very bass string of humility. Sirrah, am sworn brother to a leash of drawers, and can call them all by their Christian names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 2)
They take it already upon their salvation that though be but Prince of Wales, yet am the king of courtesy, and tell me flatly am no proud jack, like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a good boy--by the Lord, so they call me--and when am king of England, shall command all the good lads in Eastcheap.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 3)
They call drinking deep "dyeing scarlet," and when you breathe in your watering, they cry "Hem!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 4)
" and bid you "Play it off!" To conclude, am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour that can drink with any tinker in his own language during my life.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 5)
tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost much honor that thou wert not with me in this action; but, sweet Ned--to sweeten which name of Ned, give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped even now into my hand by an underskinker, one that never spake other English in his life than "Eight shillings and sixpence," and "You are welcome," with this shrill addition, "Anon, anon, sir.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 6)
--Score a pint of bastard in the Half-moon," or so.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 7)
But, Ned, to drive away the time till Falstaff come, prithee, do thou stand in some by-room while question my puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar, and do thou never leave calling "Francis," that his tale to me may be nothing but "Anon.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 8)
" Step aside, and I'll show thee a precedent.  Francis!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 9)
Thou art perfect.  Francis!     Anon, anon, sir.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 10)
--Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.  Come hither, Francis.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 11)
My lord?  How long hast thou to serve, Francis?  Forsooth, five years, and as much as to--  Francis!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 12)
Anon, anon, sir.  Five year! By 'r Lady, a long lease for the clinking of pewter!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 13)
But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant as to play the coward with thy indenture, and show it a fair pair of heels, and run from it?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 14)
Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in England, could find in my heart--  Francis!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 15)
Anon, sir.  How old art thou, Francis?  Let me see.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 16)
About Michaelmas next, shall be--  Francis!  Anon, sir.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 17)
--Pray, stay a little, my lord.  Nay, but hark you, Francis, for the sugar thou gavest me--'twas a pennyworth, was 't not?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 18)
Lord, would it had been two!  will give thee for it a thousand pound.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 19)
Ask me when thou wilt, and thou shalt have it.  Francis!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 20)
Anon, anon.  Anon, Francis? No, Francis. But tomorrow, Francis; or, Francis, o' Thursday; or indeed, Francis, when thou wilt.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 21)
But, Francis--  My lord?  Wilt thou rob this leathern-jerkin, crystal-button, not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter, smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch--  Lord, sir, who do you mean?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 22)
Why then, your brown bastard is your only drink, for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet will sully.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 23)
In Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.  What, sir?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 24)
Francis!  Away, you rogue! Dost thou not hear them call?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 25)
What, stand'st thou still and hear'st such a calling?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 26)
Look to the guests within. My lord, old Sir John with half a dozen more are at the door.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 27)
Shall let them in?  Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 28)
Poins!     Anon, anon, sir.  Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at the door.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 29)
Shall we be merry?  As merry as crickets, my lad.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 30)
But hark you, what cunning match have you made with this jest of the drawer.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 31)
Come, what's the issue?  am now of all humors that have showed themselves humors since the old days of Goodman Adam to the pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 32)
What's o'clock, Francis?  Anon, anon, sir.  That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a parrot, and yet the son of a woman!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 33)
His industry is upstairs and downstairs, his eloquence the parcel of a reckoning.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 34)
am not yet of Percy's mind, the Hotspur of the north, he that kills me some six or seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his hands, and says to his wife "Fie upon this quiet life!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 35)
want work." my sweet Harry," says she, "how many hast thou killed today?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 36)
" "Give my roan horse a drench," says he, and answers "Some fourteen," an hour after.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 37)
trifle, a trifle." prithee, call in Falstaff. I'll play Percy, and that damned brawn shall play Dame Mortimer his wife.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 38)
"Rivo!" says the drunkard. Call in Ribs, call in Tallow.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 39)
Welcome, Jack. Where hast thou been?  plague of all cowards, say, and a vengeance too!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 40)
Marry and amen!--Give me a cup of sack, boy.--Ere lead this life long, I'll sew netherstocks and mend them, and foot them too.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 41)
plague of all cowards!--Give me a cup of sack, rogue!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 42)
--Is there no virtue extant?  Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter--pitiful-hearted Titan!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 43)
--that melted at the sweet tale of the sun's? If thou didst, then behold that compound.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 44)
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too.--There is nothing but roguery to be found in villainous man, yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime in it.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 45)
villainous coward! Go thy ways, old Jack. Die when thou wilt.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 46)
If manhood, good manhood, be not forgot upon the face of the Earth, then am a shotten herring.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 47)
There lives not three good men unhanged in England, and one of them is fat and grows old, God help the while.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 48)
bad world, say. would were a weaver. could sing psalms, or anything.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 49)
plague of all cowards, say still.  How now, woolsack, what mutter you?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 50)
king's son! If do not beat thee out of thy kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy subjects afore thee like a flock of wild geese, I'll never wear hair on my face more.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 51)
You, Prince of Wales!  Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 52)
Are not you a coward? Answer me to that-- and Poins there?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 53)
Zounds, you fat paunch, an you call me coward, by the Lord, I'll stab thee.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 54)
call thee coward? I'll see thee damned ere call thee coward, but would give a thousand pound could run as fast as thou canst.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 55)
You are straight enough in the shoulders you care not who sees your back.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 56)
Call you that backing of your friends? plague upon such backing!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 57)
Give me them that will face me.--Give me a cup of sack.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 58)
--I am a rogue if drunk today.  villain, thy lips are scarce wiped since thou drunk'st last.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 59)
All is one for that.  plague of all cowards, still say  What's the matter?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 60)
What's the matter? There be four of us here have ta'en a thousand pound this day morning.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 61)
Where is it, Jack, where is it?  Where is it? Taken from us it is.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 62)
hundred upon poor four of us.  What, a hundred, man?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 63)
am a rogue if were not at half-sword with a dozen of them two hours together.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 64)
have 'scaped by miracle. am eight times thrust through the doublet, four through the hose, my buckler cut through and through, my sword hacked like a handsaw.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 65)
Ecce signum! never dealt better since was a man. All would not do.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 66)
plague of all cowards! Let them speak. If they speak more or less than truth, they are villains, and the sons of darkness.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 67)
Speak, sirs, how was it?  We four set upon some dozen.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 68)
Sixteen at least, my lord.  And bound them.  No, no, they were not bound.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 69)
You rogue, they were bound, every man of them, or am a Jew else, an Ebrew Jew.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 70)
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 71)
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 72)
What, fought you with them all?  All? know not what you call all, but if fought not with fifty of them am a bunch of radish.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 73)
If there were not two- or three-and-fifty upon poor old Jack, then am no two-legged creature.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 74)
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.  Nay, that's past praying for.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 75)
have peppered two of them. Two am sure have paid, two rogues in buckram suits.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 76)
tell thee what, Hal, if tell thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 77)
Thou knowest my old ward. Here lay, and thus bore my point.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 78)
Four rogues in buckram let drive at me.  What, four?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 79)
Thou said'st but two even now.  Four, Hal, told thee four.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 80)
Ay, ay, he said four.  These four came all afront, and mainly thrust at me.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 81)
made me no more ado, but took all their seven points in my target, thus.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 82)
Seven? Why there were but four even now.  In buckram?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 83)
Ay, four in buckram suits.  Seven by these hilts, or am a villain else.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 84)
Prithee, let him alone. We shall have more anon.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 85)
Dost thou hear me, Hal?  Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 86)
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine in buckram that told thee of--  So, two more already.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 87)
Their points being broken--  Down fell their hose.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 88)
Began to give me ground, but followed me close, came in foot and hand, and, with a thought, seven of the eleven paid.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 89)
monstrous! Eleven buckram men grown out of two!  But as the devil would have it, three misbegotten knaves in Kendal green came at my back, and let drive at me, for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst not see thy hand.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 90)
These lies are like their father that begets them, gross as a mountain, open, palpable.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 91)
Why, thou claybrained guts, thou knotty-pated fool, thou whoreson, obscene, greasy tallow-catch--  What, art thou mad?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 92)
Art thou mad? Is not the truth the truth?  Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal green when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy hand?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 93)
Come, tell us your reason. What sayest thou to this?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 94)
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.  What, upon compulsion?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 95)
Zounds, an were at the strappado or all the racks in the world, would not tell you on compulsion.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 96)
Give you a reason on compulsion? If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, would give no man a reason upon compulsion,  I'll be no longer guilty of this sin.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 97)
This sanguine coward, this bed-presser, this horse-backbreaker, this huge hill of flesh--  'Sblood, you starveling, you elfskin, you dried neat's tongue, you bull's pizzle, you stockfish!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 98)
for breath to utter what is like thee! You tailor's yard, you sheath, you bowcase, you vile standing tuck--  Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again, and when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons, hear me speak but this.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 99)
Mark, Jack.  We two saw you four set on four, and bound them and were masters of their wealth.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 100)
Mark now how a plain tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you four and, with a word, outfaced you from your prize, and have it, yea, and can show it you here in the house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 101)
And, Falstaff, you carried your guts away as nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roared for mercy, and still run and roared, as ever heard bull-calf.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 102)
What a slave art thou to hack thy sword as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 103)
What trick, what device, what starting-hole canst thou now find out to hide thee from this open and apparent shame?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 104)
Come, let's hear, Jack. What trick hast thou now?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 105)
By the Lord, knew you as well as he that made you.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 106)
Why, hear you, my masters, was it for me to kill the heir apparent?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 107)
Should turn upon the true prince? Why, thou knowest am as valiant as Hercules, but beware instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 108)
The lion will not touch the true prince. Instinct is a great matter.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 109)
was now a coward on instinct. shall think the better of myself, and thee, during my life-- for a valiant lion, and thou for a true prince.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 110)
But, by the Lord, lads, am glad you have the money.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 111)
--Hostess, clap to the doors.--Watch tonight, pray tomorrow.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 112)
Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, all the titles of good fellowship come to you.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 113)
What, shall we be merry? Shall we have a play extempore?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 114)
Content, and the argument shall be thy running away.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 115)
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me.     Jesu, my lord the Prince--  How now, my lady the hostess, what sayst thou to me?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 116)
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at door would speak with you.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 117)
He says he comes from your father.  Give him as much as will make him a royal man and send him back again to my mother.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 118)
What manner of man is he?  An old man.  What doth Gravity out of his bed at midnight?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 119)
Shall give him his answer?  Prithee do, Jack.  Faith, and I'll send him packing.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 120)
Now, sirs.  By 'r Lady, you fought fair.--So did you, Peto.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 121)
--So did you, Bardolph.-- You are lions too. You ran away upon instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 122)
You will not touch the true prince. No, fie!  Faith, ran when saw others run.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 123)
Faith, tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's sword so hacked?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 124)
Why, he hacked it with his dagger and said he would swear truth out of England but he would make you believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 125)
Yea, and to tickle our noses with speargrass to make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments with it, and swear it was the blood of true men.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 126)
did that did not this seven year before: blushed to hear his monstrous devices.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 127)
villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years ago, and wert taken with the manner, and ever since thou hast blushed extempore.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 128)
Thou hadst fire and sword on thy side, and yet thou ran'st away.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 129)
What instinct hadst thou for it?  My lord, do you see these meteors?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 130)
Do you behold these exhalations?  do.  What think you they portend?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 131)
Hot livers and cold purses.  Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 132)
No. If rightly taken, halter.    Here comes lean Jack.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 133)
Here comes bare-bone.-- How now, my sweet creature of bombast?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 134)
How long is 't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 135)
My own knee? When was about thy years, Hal, was not an eagle's talon in the waist.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 136)
could have crept into any alderman's thumb-ring. plague of sighing and grief!(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 137)
It blows a man up like a bladder. There's villainous news abroad.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 138)
Here was Sir John Bracy from your father. You must to the court in the morning.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 139)
That same mad fellow of the north, Percy, and he of Wales that gave Amamon the bastinado, and made Lucifer cuckold, and swore the devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh hook--what a plague call you him?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 140)
Owen Glendower.  Owen, Owen, the same, and his son-in-law Mortimer, and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of Scots, Douglas, that runs a-horseback up a hill perpendicular--  He that rides at high speed, and with his pistol kills a sparrow flying.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 141)
You have hit it.  So did he never the sparrow.  Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 142)
He will not run.  Why, what a rascal art thou then to praise him so for running?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 143)
A-horseback, you cuckoo, but afoot he will not budge a foot.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 144)
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.  grant you, upon instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 145)
Well, he is there too, and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 146)
Worcester is stolen away tonight. Thy father's beard is turned white with the news.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 147)
You may buy land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 148)
Why then, it is like if there come a hot June, and this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads as they buy hobnails, by the hundreds.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 149)
By the Mass, thou sayest true. It is like we shall have good trading that way.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 150)
But tell me, Hal, art not thou horrible afeard? Thou being heir apparent, could the world pick thee out three such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 151)
Art thou not horribly afraid? Doth not thy blood thrill at it?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 152)
Not a whit, i' faith. lack some of thy instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 153)
Well, thou wilt be horribly chid tomorrow when thou comest to thy father.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 154)
If thou love me, practice an answer.  Do thou stand for my father and examine me upon the particulars of my life.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 155)
Shall Content.  This chair shall be my state, this dagger my scepter, and this cushion my crown.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 156)
Thy state is taken for a joined stool, thy golden scepter for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich crown for a pitiful bald crown.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 157)
Well, an the fire of grace be not quite out of thee, now shalt thou be moved.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 158)
--Give me a cup of sack to make my eyes look red, that it may be thought have wept, for must speak in passion, and will do it in King Cambyses' vein.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 159)
Well, here is my leg.  And here is my speech.  Stand aside, nobility.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 160)
Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!   Weep not, sweet queen, for trickling tears are vain.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 161)
the Father, how he holds his countenance!   For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen, For tears do stop the floodgates of her eyes.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 162)
Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry players as ever see.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 163)
Peace, good pint-pot. Peace, good tickle-brain.-- Harry, do not only marvel where thou spendest thy time, but also how thou art accompanied.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 164)
For though the camomile, the more it is trodden on, the faster it grows, so youth, the more it is wasted, the sooner it wears.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 165)
That thou art my son have partly thy mother's word, partly my own opinion, but chiefly a villainous trick of thine eye and a foolish hanging of thy nether lip that doth warrant me.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 166)
If then thou be son to me, here lies the point: why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 167)
Shall the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat blackberries?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 168)
question not to be asked. Shall the son of England prove a thief and take purses?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 169)
question to be asked. There is a thing, Harry, which thou hast often heard of, and it is known to many in our land by the name of pitch.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 170)
This pitch, as ancient writers do report, doth defile; so doth the company thou keepest.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 171)
For, Harry, now do not speak to thee in drink, but in tears; not in pleasure, but in passion; not in words only, but in woes also.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 172)
And yet there is a virtuous man whom have often noted in thy company, but know not his name.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 173)
What manner of man, an it like your Majesty?  goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a cheerful look, a pleasing eye, and a most noble carriage, and, as think, his age some fifty, or, by 'r Lady, inclining to threescore; and now remember me, his name is Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 174)
If that man should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me, for, Harry, see virtue in his looks.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 175)
If then the tree may be known by the fruit, as the fruit by the tree, then peremptorily speak it: there is virtue in that Falstaff; him keep with, the rest banish.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 176)
And tell me now, thou naughty varlet, tell me where hast thou been this month?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 177)
Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me, and I'll play my father.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 178)
Depose me? If thou dost it half so gravely, so majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter's hare.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 179)
Well, here am set.  And here stand.--Judge, my masters.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 180)
Now, Harry, whence come you?  My noble lord, from Eastcheap.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 181)
The complaints hear of thee are grievous.  'Sblood, my lord, they are false.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 182)
--Nay, I'll tickle you for a young prince, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 183)
Swearest thou? Ungracious boy, henceforth ne'er look on me.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 184)
Thou art violently carried away from grace. There is a devil haunts thee in the likeness of an old fat man.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 185)
tun of man is thy companion. Why dost thou converse with that trunk of humors, that bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed cloakbag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with the pudding in his belly, that reverend Vice, that gray iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in years?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 186)
Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and drink it?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 187)
Wherein neat and cleanly but to carve a capon and eat it?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 188)
Wherein cunning but in craft? Wherein crafty but in villainy?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 189)
Wherein villainous but in all things? Wherein worthy but in nothing?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 190)
would your Grace would take me with you. Whom means your Grace?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 191)
That villainous abominable misleader of youth, Falstaff, that old white-bearded Satan.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 192)
My lord, the man know.  know thou dost.  But to say know more harm in him than in myself were to say more than know.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 193)
That he is old, the more the pity; his white hairs do witness it.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 194)
But that he is, saving your reverence, a whoremaster, that utterly deny.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 195)
If sack and sugar be a fault, God help the wicked.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 196)
If to be old and merry be a sin, then many an old host that know is damned.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 197)
If to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine are to be loved.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 198)
No, my good lord, banish Peto, banish Bardolph, banish Poins, but for sweet Jack Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff, valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant being as he is old Jack Falstaff, banish not him thy Harry's company, banish not him thy Harry's company.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 199)
Banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.  do, will.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 200)
loud knocking, and Bardolph, Hostess, and      my lord, my lord, the Sheriff with a most monstrous watch is at the door.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 201)
Out, you rogue.--Play out the play. have much to say in the behalf of that Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 202)
Jesu, my lord, my lord--  Heigh, heigh, the devil rides upon a fiddlestick.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 203)
What's the matter?  The Sheriff and all the watch are at the door.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 204)
They are come to search the house. Shall let them in?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 205)
Dost thou hear, Hal? Never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 206)
Thou art essentially made without seeming so.  And thou a natural coward without instinct.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 207)
deny your major. If you will deny the Sheriff, so; if not, let him enter.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 208)
If become not a cart as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 209)
hope shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 210)
Go hide thee behind the arras. The rest walk up above.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 211)
--Now, my masters, for a true face and good conscience.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 212)
Both which have had, but their date is out; and therefore I'll hide me.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 213)
Call in the Sheriff.       Now, Master Sheriff, what is your will with me?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 214)
First pardon me, my lord. hue and cry Hath followed certain men unto this house.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 215)
What men?   One of them is well known, my gracious lord.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 216)
gross fat man.  As fat as butter.   The man do assure you is not here, For myself at this time have employed him.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 217)
And, sheriff, will engage my word to thee That will by tomorrow dinner time Send him to answer thee or any man For anything he shall be charged withal.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 218)
And so let me entreat you leave the house.   will, my lord.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 219)
There are two gentlemen Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 220)
It may be so. If he have robbed these men, He shall be answerable; and so farewell.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 221)
Good night, my noble lord.   think it is good morrow, is it not?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 222)
Indeed, my lord, think it be two o'clock.   This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 223)
Go call him forth.  Falstaff!--Fast asleep behind the arras, and snorting like a horse.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 224)
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 225)
What hast thou found?  Nothing but papers, my lord.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 226)
Let's see what they be. Read them.   Item, a capon,.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 227)
..2s. 2d. Item, sauce,...4d. Item, sack, two gallons,.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 228)
..5s. 8d. Item, anchovies and sack after supper,..(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 229)
.2s. 6d. Item, bread,...ob.  monstrous! But one halfpennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack?(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 230)
What there is else, keep close. We'll read it at more advantage.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 231)
There let him sleep till day. I'll to the court in the morning.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 232)
We must all to the wars, and thy place shall be honorable.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 233)
I'll procure this fat rogue a charge of foot, and know his death will be a march of twelve score.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 234)
The money shall be paid back again with advantage.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 235)
Be with me betimes in the morning, and so good morrow, Peto.(Henry IV, Part I, Act 3, Scene 236)
Sirs, take your places and be vigilant. If any noise or soldier you perceive Near to the walls, by some apparent sign Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 0)
Sergeant, you shall. Thus are poor servitors, When others sleep upon their quiet beds, Constrained to watch in darkness, rain, and cold.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 1)
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy, By whose approach the regions of Artois, Walloon, and Picardy are friends to us, This happy night the Frenchmen are secure, Having all day caroused and banqueted.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 2)
Embrace we then this opportunity, As fitting best to quittance their deceit Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 3)
Coward of France, how much he wrongs his fame, Despairing of his own arm's fortitude, To join with witches and the help of hell!(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 4)
Traitors have never other company. But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 5)
maid, they say.  maid? And be so martial?   Pray God she prove not masculine ere long, If underneath the standard of the French She carry armor as she hath begun.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 6)
Well, let them practice and converse with spirits.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 7)
God is our fortress, in whose conquering name Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 8)
Ascend, brave Talbot. We will follow thee.   Not all together.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 9)
Better far, guess, That we do make our entrance several ways, That if it chance the one of us do fail, The other yet may rise against their force.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 10)
Agreed. I'll to yond corner.  And to this.   And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 11)
Now, Salisbury, for thee and for the right Of English Henry, shall this night appear How much in duty am bound to both.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 12)
Arm, arm! The enemy doth make assault.         How now, my lords?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 13)
What, all unready so?   Unready? Ay, and glad we scaped so well.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 14)
'Twas time, trow, to wake and leave our beds, Hearing alarums at our chamber doors.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 15)
Of all exploits since first followed arms Ne'er heard of a warlike enterprise More venturous or desperate than this.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 16)
think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.   If not of hell, the heavens sure favor him.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 17)
Here cometh Charles. marvel how he sped.      Tut, holy Joan was his defensive guard.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 18)
Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame? Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal, Make us partakers of a little gain That now our loss might be ten times so much?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 19)
Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 20)
At all times will you have my power alike? Sleeping or waking, must still prevail, Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 21)
-- Improvident soldiers, had your watch been good, This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 22)
Duke of Alanson, this was your default, That, being captain of the watch tonight, Did look no better to that weighty charge.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 23)
Had all your quarters been as safely kept As that whereof had the government, We had not been thus shamefully surprised.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 24)
Mine was secure.  And so was mine, my lord.   And for myself, most part of all this night Within her quarter and mine own precinct was employed in passing to and fro About relieving of the sentinels.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 25)
Then how or which way should they first break in?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 26)
Question, my lords, no further of the case, How or which way; 'tis sure they found some place But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 27)
And now there rests no other shift but this: To gather our soldiers, scattered and dispersed, And lay new platforms to endamage them.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 28)
Talbot, Talbot!" The French fly,     I'll be so bold to take what they have left.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 29)
The cry of "Talbot" serves me for a sword, For have loaden me with many spoils, Using no other weapon but his name.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 0, Scene 30)
The day begins to break and night is fled, Whose pitchy mantle over-veiled the Earth.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 0)
Here sound retreat and cease our hot pursuit.    Bring forth the body of old Salisbury, And here advance it in the marketplace, The middle center of this cursed town.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 1)
Now have paid my vow unto his soul: For every drop of blood was drawn from him There hath at least five Frenchmen died tonight.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 2)
And, that hereafter ages may behold What ruin happened in revenge of him, Within their chiefest temple I'll erect tomb wherein his corpse shall be interred, Upon the which, that everyone may read, Shall be engraved the sack of Orleance, The treacherous manner of his mournful death, And what a terror he had been to France.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 3)
But, lords, in all our bloody massacre, muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace, His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc, Nor any of his false confederates.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 4)
'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began, Roused on the sudden from their drowsy beds, They did amongst the troops of armed men Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 5)
Myself, as far as could well discern For smoke and dusky vapors of the night, Am sure scared the Dauphin and his trull, When arm-in-arm they both came swiftly running, Like to a pair of loving turtledoves That could not live asunder day or night.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 6)
After that things are set in order here, We'll follow them with all the power we have.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 7)
All hail, my lords. Which of this princely train Call you the warlike Talbot, for his acts So much applauded through the realm of France?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 8)
Here is the Talbot. Who would speak with him?   The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne, With modesty admiring thy renown, By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe To visit her poor castle where she lies, That she may boast she hath beheld the man Whose glory fills the world with loud report.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 9)
Is it even so? Nay, then, see our wars Will turn unto a peaceful comic sport, When ladies crave to be encountered with.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 10)
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.   Ne'er trust me, then; for when a world of men Could not prevail with all their oratory, Yet hath a woman's kindness overruled.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 11)
-- And therefore tell her return great thanks, And in submission will attend on her.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 12)
-- Will not your Honors bear me company?   No, truly, 'tis more than manners will; And have heard it said unbidden guests Are often welcomest when they are gone.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 13)
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy, mean to prove this lady's courtesy.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 14)
-- Come hither, captain. You perceive my mind?   do, my lord, and mean accordingly.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 1, Scene 15)
Porter, remember what gave in charge, And when you have done so, bring the keys to me.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 0)
Madam, will.   The plot is laid. If all things fall out right, shall as famous be by this exploit As Scythian Tamyris by Cyrus' death.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 1)
Great is the rumor of this dreadful knight, And his achievements of no less account.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 2)
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears To give their censure of these rare reports.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 3)
Madam, according as your Ladyship desired, By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 4)
And he is welcome. What, is this the man?   Madam, it is.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 5)
Is this the scourge of France? Is this the Talbot, so much feared abroad That with his name the mothers still their babes?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 6)
see report is fabulous and false. thought should have seen some Hercules, second Hector, for his grim aspect And large proportion of his strong-knit limbs.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 7)
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf! It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp Should strike such terror to his enemies.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 8)
Madam, have been bold to trouble you. But since your Ladyship is not at leisure, I'll sort some other time to visit you.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 9)
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 10)
Stay, my Lord Talbot, for my lady craves To know the cause of your abrupt departure.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 11)
Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief, go to certify her Talbot's here.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 12)
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.   Prisoner?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 13)
To whom?  To me, bloodthirsty lord. And for that cause trained thee to my house.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 14)
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me, For in my gallery thy picture hangs.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 15)
But now the substance shall endure the like, And will chain these legs and arms of thine, That hast by tyranny these many years Wasted our country, slain our citizens, And sent our sons and husbands captivate.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 16)
Ha, ha, ha!   Laughest thou, wretch? Thy mirth shall turn to moan.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 17)
laugh to see your Ladyship so fond To think that you have aught but Talbot's shadow Whereon to practice your severity.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 18)
Why, art not thou the man?  am, indeed.  Then have substance too.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 19)
No, no, am but shadow of myself. You are deceived; my substance is not here, For what you see is but the smallest part And least proportion of humanity.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 20)
tell you, madam, were the whole frame here, It is of such a spacious lofty pitch Your roof were not sufficient to contain 't.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 21)
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce: He will be here and yet he is not here.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 22)
How can these contrarieties agree?   That will show you presently.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 23)
How say you, madam? Are you now persuaded That Talbot is but shadow of himself?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 24)
These are his substance, sinews, arms, and strength, With which he yoketh your rebellious necks, Razeth your cities, and subverts your towns, And in a moment makes them desolate.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 25)
Victorious Talbot, pardon my abuse. find thou art no less than fame hath bruited, And more than may be gathered by thy shape.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 26)
Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath, For am sorry that with reverence did not entertain thee as thou art.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 27)
Be not dismayed, fair lady, nor misconster The mind of Talbot as you did mistake The outward composition of his body.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 28)
What you have done hath not offended me, Nor other satisfaction do crave But only, with your patience, that we may Taste of your wine and see what cates you have, For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 29)
With all my heart, and think me honored To feast so great a warrior in my house.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 2, Scene 30)
William de la Pole the Earl of Suffolk,     Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 0)
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?   Within the Temple Hall we were too loud; The garden here is more convenient.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 1)
Then say at once if maintained the truth, Or else was wrangling Somerset in th' error?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 2)
Faith, have been a truant in the law And never yet could frame my will to it, And therefore frame the law unto my will.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 3)
Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 4)
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch, Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth, Between two blades, which bears the better temper, Between two horses, which doth bear him best, Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye, have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgment; But in these nice sharp quillets of the law, Good faith, am no wiser than a daw.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 5)
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance! The truth appears so naked on my side That any purblind eye may find it out.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 6)
And on my side it is so well appareled, So clear, so shining, and so evident, That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 7)
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak, In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts: Let him that is a trueborn gentleman And stands upon the honor of his birth, If he suppose that have pleaded truth, From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 8)
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer, But dare maintain the party of the truth, Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 9)
love no colors; and, without all color Of base insinuating flattery, pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 10)
pluck this red rose with young Somerset, And say withal think he held the right.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 11)
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more Till you conclude that he upon whose side The fewest roses are cropped from the tree Shall yield the other in the right opinion.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 12)
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected: If have fewest, subscribe in silence.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 13)
And   Then for the truth and plainness of the case, pluck this pale and maiden blossom here, Giving my verdict on the white rose side.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 14)
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off, Lest, bleeding, you do paint the white rose red, And fall on my side so against your will.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 15)
If my lord, for my opinion bleed, Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt And keep me on the side where still am.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 16)
Well, well, come on, who else?   Unless my study and my books be false, The argument you held was wrong in law, In sign whereof pluck a white rose too.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 17)
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?   Here in my scabbard, meditating that Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 18)
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses, For pale they look with fear, as witnessing The truth on our side.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 19)
No, Plantagenet. 'Tis not for fear, but anger that thy cheeks Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses, And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 20)
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?   Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 21)
Ay, sharp and piercing, to maintain his truth, Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 22)
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses That shall maintain what have said is true, Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 23)
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand, scorn thee and thy fashion, peevish boy.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 24)
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.   Proud Pole, will, and scorn both him and thee.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 25)
I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.   Away, away, good William de la Pole!(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 26)
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.   Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 27)
His grandfather was Lionel, Duke of Clarence, Third son to the third Edward, King of England.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 28)
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?   He bears him on the place's privilege, Or durst not for his craven heart say thus.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 29)
By Him that made me, I'll maintain my words On any plot of ground in Christendom.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 30)
Was not thy father Richard, Earl of Cambridge, For treason executed in our late king's days?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 31)
And, by his treason, stand'st not thou attainted, Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 32)
His trespass yet lives guilty in thy blood, And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 33)
My father was attached, not attainted, Condemned to die for treason, but no traitor; And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset, Were growing time once ripened to my will.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 34)
For your partaker Pole and you yourself, I'll note you in my book of memory To scourge you for this apprehension.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 35)
Look to it well, and say you are well warned.   Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still, And know us by these colors for thy foes, For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 36)
And, by my soul, this pale and angry rose, As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate, Will forever, and my faction, wear Until it wither with me to my grave Or flourish to the height of my degree.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 37)
Go forward, and be choked with thy ambition! And so farewell, until meet thee next.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 38)
Have with thee, Pole.--Farewell, ambitious Richard.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 39)
How am braved, and must perforce endure it!   This blot that they object against your house Shall be whipped out in the next parliament, Called for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester; And if thou be not then created York, will not live to be accounted Warwick.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 40)
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee, Against proud Somerset and William Pole Will upon thy party wear this rose.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 41)
And here prophesy: this brawl today, Grown to this faction in the Temple garden, Shall send, between the red rose and the white, thousand souls to death and deadly night.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 42)
Good Master Vernon, am bound to you, That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 43)
In your behalf still will wear the same.   And so will  Thanks, gentle sir.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 44)
Come, let us four to dinner. dare say This quarrel will drink blood another day.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 3, Scene 45)
Kind keepers of my weak decaying age, Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 0)
Even like a man new-haled from the rack, So fare my limbs with long imprisonment; And these gray locks, the pursuivants of death, Nestor-like aged in an age of care, Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer; These eyes, like lamps whose wasting oil is spent, Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent; Weak shoulders, overborne with burdening grief, And pithless arms, like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to the ground; Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb, Unable to support this lump of clay, Swift-winged with desire to get a grave, As witting no other comfort have.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 1)
But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?   Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 2)
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber, And answer was returned that he will come.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 3)
Enough. My soul shall then be satisfied. Poor gentleman, his wrong doth equal mine.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 4)
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign, Before whose glory was great in arms, This loathsome sequestration have had; And even since then hath Richard been obscured, Deprived of honor and inheritance.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 5)
But now the arbitrator of despairs, Just Death, kind umpire of men's miseries, With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 6)
would his troubles likewise were expired, That so he might recover what was lost.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 7)
My lord, your loving nephew now is come.   Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 8)
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used, Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 9)
Direct mine arms may embrace his neck And in his bosom spend my latter gasp.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 10)
tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks, That may kindly give one fainting kiss.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 11)
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock, Why didst thou say of late thou wert despised?(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 12)
First, lean thine aged back against mine arm, And in that ease I'll tell thee my disease.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 13)
This day, in argument upon a case, Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me, Among which terms he used his lavish tongue And did upbraid me with my father's death; Which obloquy set bars before my tongue, Else with the like had requited him.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 14)
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake, In honor of a true Plantagenet, And for alliance' sake, declare the cause My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 15)
That cause, fair nephew, that imprisoned me And hath detained me all my flow'ring youth Within a loathsome dungeon, there to pine, Was cursed instrument of his decease.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 16)
Discover more at large what cause that was, For am ignorant and cannot guess.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 17)
will, if that my fading breath permit And death approach not ere my tale be done.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 18)
Henry the Fourth, grandfather to this king, Deposed his nephew Richard, Edward's son, The first begotten and the lawful heir Of Edward king, the third of that descent; During whose reign the Percies of the north, Finding his usurpation most unjust, Endeavored my advancement to the throne.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 19)
The reason moved these warlike lords to this Was, for that--young Richard thus removed, Leaving no heir begotten of his body-- was the next by birth and parentage; For by my mother derived am From Lionel, Duke of Clarence, third son To King Edward the Third; whereas he From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree, Being but fourth of that heroic line.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 20)
But mark: as in this haughty great attempt They labored to plant the rightful heir, lost my liberty and they their lives.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 21)
Long after this, when Henry the Fifth, Succeeding his father Bolingbroke, did reign, Thy father, Earl of Cambridge then, derived From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York, Marrying my sister that thy mother was, Again, in pity of my hard distress, Levied an army, weening to redeem And have installed me in the diadem.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 22)
But, as the rest, so fell that noble earl And was beheaded.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 23)
Thus the Mortimers, In whom the title rested, were suppressed.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 24)
Of which, my lord, your Honor is the last.   True, and thou seest that no issue have And that my fainting words do warrant death.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 25)
Thou art my heir; the rest wish thee gather. But yet be wary in thy studious care.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 26)
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me. But yet methinks my father's execution Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 27)
With silence, nephew, be thou politic; Strong-fixed is the house of Lancaster, And, like a mountain, not to be removed.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 28)
But now thy uncle is removing hence, As princes do their courts when they are cloyed With long continuance in a settled place.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 29)
uncle, would some part of my young years Might but redeem the passage of your age.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 30)
Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer doth Which giveth many wounds when one will kill.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 31)
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good; Only give order for my funeral.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 32)
And so farewell, and fair be all thy hopes, And prosperous be thy life in peace and war.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 33)
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul. In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage, And like a hermit overpassed thy days.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 34)
-- Well, will lock his counsel in my breast, And what do imagine, let that rest.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 35)
-- Keepers, convey him hence, and myself Will see his burial better than his life.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 36)
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer, Choked with ambition of the meaner sort.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 37)
And for those wrongs, those bitter injuries, Which Somerset hath offered to my house, doubt not but with honor to redress.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 38)
And therefore haste to the Parliament, Either to be restored to my blood, Or make mine ill th' advantage of my good.(Henry VI, Part 1, Act 4, Scene 39)
Master Fang, have you entered the action?  It is entered.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 0)
Where's your yeoman? Is 't a lusty yeoman? Will he stand to 't?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 1)
Sirrah! Where's Snare?  Lord, ay, good Master Snare.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 2)
Here, here.  Snare, we must arrest Sir John Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 3)
Yea, good Master Snare, have entered him and all.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 4)
It may chance cost some of us our lives, for he will stab.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 5)
Alas the day, take heed of him. He stabbed me in mine own house, and that most beastly, in good faith.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 6)
He cares not what mischief he does. If his weapon be out, he will foin like any devil.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 7)
He will spare neither man, woman, nor child.  If can close with him, care not for his thrust.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 8)
No, nor neither. I'll be at your elbow.  An but fist him once, an he come but within my view--  am undone by his going.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 9)
warrant you, he's an infinitive thing upon my score.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 10)
Good Master Fang, hold him sure. Good Master Snare, let him not 'scape.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 11)
He comes continuantly to Pie Corner, saving your manhoods, to buy a saddle, and he is indited to dinner to the Lubber's Head in Lumbert Street, to Master Smooth's the silkman.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 12)
pray you, since my exion is entered, and my case so openly known to the world, let him be brought in to his answer.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 13)
hundred mark is a long one for a poor lone woman to bear, and have borne, and borne, and borne, and have been fubbed off, and fubbed off, and fubbed off from this day to that day, that it is a shame to be thought on.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 14)
There is no honesty in such dealing, unless a woman should be made an ass and a beast to bear every knave's wrong.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 15)
Yonder he comes, and that arrant malmsey-nose knave, Bardolph, with him.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 16)
Do your offices, do your offices, Master Fang and Master Snare, do me, do me, do me your offices.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 17)
How now, whose mare's dead? What's the matter?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 18)
Sir John, arrest you at the suit of Mistress Quickly.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 19)
Away, varlets!--Draw, Bardolph. Cut me off the villain's head.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 20)
Throw the quean in the channel.  Throw me in the channel?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 21)
I'll throw thee in the channel. Wilt thou, wilt thou, thou bastardly rogue?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 22)
--Murder, murder!--Ah, thou honeysuckle villain, wilt thou kill God's officers and the King's?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 23)
Ah, thou honeyseed rogue, thou art a honeyseed, a man-queller, and a woman-queller.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 24)
Keep them off, Bardolph.  rescue, a rescue!  Good people, bring a rescue or two.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 25)
--Thou wot, wot thou? Thou wot, wot ta? Do, do, thou rogue.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 26)
Do, thou hempseed.  Away, you scullion, you rampallian, you fustilarian!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 27)
I'll tickle your catastrophe.      What is the matter?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 28)
Keep the peace here, ho!  Good my lord, be good to me.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 29)
beseech you stand to me.   How now, Sir John? What, are you brawling here?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 30)
Doth this become your place, your time, and business?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 31)
You should have been well on your way to York.-- Stand from him, fellow.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 32)
Wherefore hang'st thou upon him?  my most worshipful lord, an 't please your Grace, am a poor widow of Eastcheap, and he is arrested at my suit.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 33)
For what sum?  It is more than for some, my lord; it is for all have.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 34)
He hath eaten me out of house and home. He hath put all my substance into that fat belly of his.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 35)
But will have some of it out again, or will ride thee o' nights like the mare.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 36)
think am as like to ride the mare if have any vantage of ground to get up.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 37)
How comes this, Sir John? Fie, what man of good temper would endure this tempest of exclamation?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 38)
Are you not ashamed to enforce a poor widow to so rough a course to come by her own?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 39)
What is the gross sum that owe thee?  Marry, if thou wert an honest man, thyself and the money too.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 40)
Thou didst swear to me upon a parcel-gilt goblet, sitting in my Dolphin chamber at the round table by a sea-coal fire, upon Wednesday in Wheeson week, when the Prince broke thy head for liking his father to a singing-man of Windsor, thou didst swear to me then, as was washing thy wound, to marry me and make me my lady thy wife.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 41)
Canst thou deny it? Did not Goodwife Keech, the butcher's wife, come in then and call me Gossip Quickly, coming in to borrow a mess of vinegar, telling us she had a good dish of prawns, whereby thou didst desire to eat some, whereby told thee they were ill for a green wound?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 42)
And didst thou not, when she was gone downstairs, desire me to be no more so familiarity with such poor people, saying that ere long they should call me madam?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 43)
And didst thou not kiss me and bid me fetch thee thirty shillings?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 44)
put thee now to thy book-oath. Deny it if thou canst.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 45)
My lord, this is a poor mad soul, and she says up and down the town that her eldest son is like you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 46)
She hath been in good case, and the truth is, poverty hath distracted her.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 47)
But, for these foolish officers, beseech you may have redress against them.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 48)
Sir John, Sir John, am well acquainted with your manner of wrenching the true cause the false way.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 49)
It is not a confident brow, nor the throng of words that come with such more than impudent sauciness from you, can thrust me from a level consideration.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 50)
You have, as it appears to me, practiced upon the easy-yielding spirit of this woman, and made her serve your uses both in purse and in person.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 51)
Yea, in truth, my lord.  Pray thee, peace.--Pay her the debt you owe her, and unpay the villainy you have done with her.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 52)
The one you may do with sterling money, and the other with current repentance.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 53)
My lord, will not undergo this sneap without reply.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 54)
You call honorable boldness "impudent sauciness." If a man will make curtsy and say nothing, he is virtuous.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 55)
No, my lord, my humble duty remembered, will not be your suitor.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 56)
say to you, do desire deliverance from these officers, being upon hasty employment in the King's affairs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 57)
You speak as having power to do wrong; but answer in th' effect of your reputation, and satisfy the poor woman.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 58)
Come hither, hostess.      Now, Master Gower, what news?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 59)
The King, my lord, and Harry Prince of Wales Are near at hand.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 60)
The rest the paper tells.   As am a gentleman!  Faith, you said so before.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 61)
As am a gentleman. Come. No more words of it.  By this heavenly ground tread on, must be fain to pawn both my plate and the tapestry of my dining chambers.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 62)
Glasses, glasses, is the only drinking. And for thy walls, a pretty slight drollery, or the story of the Prodigal or the German hunting in waterwork is worth a thousand of these bed-hangers and these fly-bitten tapestries.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 63)
Let it be ten pound, if thou canst. Come, an 'twere not for thy humors, there's not a better wench in England.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 64)
Go wash thy face, and draw the action. Come, thou must not be in this humor with me.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 65)
Dost not know me? Come, come. know thou wast set on to this.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 66)
Pray thee, Sir John, let it be but twenty nobles.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 67)
faith, am loath to pawn my plate, so God save me, la.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 68)
Let it alone. I'll make other shift. You'll be a fool still.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 69)
Well, you shall have it, though pawn my gown. hope you'll come to supper.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 70)
You'll pay me all together?  Will live?  Go with her, with her.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 71)
Hook on, hook on.  Will you have Doll Tearsheet meet you at supper?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 72)
No more words. Let's have her.    have heard better news.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 73)
What's the news, my good lord?  Where lay the King tonight?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 74)
At Basingstoke, my lord.  hope, my lord, all's well.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 75)
What is the news, my lord?  Come all his forces back?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 76)
No. Fifteen hundred foot, five hundred horse Are marched up to my Lord of Lancaster Against Northumberland and the Archbishop.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 77)
Comes the King back from Wales, my noble lord?   You shall have letters of me presently.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 78)
Come. Go along with me, good Master Gower.  My lord!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 79)
What's the matter?  Master Gower, shall entreat you with me to dinner?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 80)
must wait upon my good lord here. thank you, good Sir John.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 81)
Sir John, you loiter here too long, being you are to take soldiers up in counties as you go.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 82)
Will you sup with me, Master Gower?  What foolish master taught you these manners, Sir John?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 83)
Master Gower, if they become me not, he was a fool that taught them me.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 84)
--This is the right fencing grace, my lord: tap for tap, and so part fair.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 85)
Now the Lord lighten thee. Thou art a great fool.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 86)
Before God, am exceeding weary.  Is 't come to that?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 0)
had thought weariness durst not have attached one of so high blood.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 1)
Faith, it does me, though it discolors the complexion of my greatness to acknowledge it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 2)
Doth it not show vilely in me to desire small beer?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 3)
Why, a prince should not be so loosely studied as to remember so weak a composition.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 4)
Belike then my appetite was not princely got, for, by my troth, do now remember the poor creature small beer.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 5)
But indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my greatness.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 6)
What a disgrace is it to me to remember thy name, or to know thy face tomorrow, or to take note how many pair of silk stockings thou hast--with these, and those that were thy peach-colored ones--or to bear the inventory of thy shirts, as, one for superfluity and another for use.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 7)
But that the tennis-court keeper knows better than for it is a low ebb of linen with thee when thou keepest not racket there, as thou hast not done a great while, because the rest of the low countries have made a shift to eat up thy holland; and God knows whether those that bawl out the ruins of thy linen shall inherit His kingdom; but the midwives say the children are not in the fault, whereupon the world increases and kindreds are mightily strengthened.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 8)
How ill it follows, after you have labored so hard, you should talk so idly!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 9)
Tell me, how many good young princes would do so, their fathers being so sick as yours at this time is?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 10)
Shall tell thee one thing, Poins?  Yes, faith, and let it be an excellent good thing.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 11)
It shall serve among wits of no higher breeding than thine.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 12)
Go to. stand the push of your one thing that you will tell.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 13)
Marry, tell thee it is not meet that should be sad, now my father is sick--albeit could tell to thee, as to one it pleases me, for fault of a better, to call my friend, could be sad, and sad indeed too.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 14)
Very hardly, upon such a subject.  By this hand, thou thinkest me as far in the devil's book as thou and Falstaff for obduracy and persistency.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 15)
Let the end try the man. But tell thee, my heart bleeds inwardly that my father is so sick; and keeping such vile company as thou art hath in reason taken from me all ostentation of sorrow.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 16)
The reason?  What wouldst thou think of me if should weep?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 17)
would think thee a most princely hypocrite.  It would be every man's thought, and thou art a blessed fellow to think as every man thinks.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 18)
Never a man's thought in the world keeps the roadway better than thine.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 19)
Every man would think me an hypocrite indeed. And what accites your most worshipful thought to think so?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 20)
Why, because you have been so lewd and so much engraffed to Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 21)
And to thee.  By this light, am well spoke on. can hear it with mine own ears.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 22)
The worst that they can say of me is that am a second brother, and that am a proper fellow of my hands; and those two things, confess, cannot help.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 23)
By the Mass, here comes Bardolph.     And the boy that gave Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 24)
He had him from me Christian, and look if the fat villain have not transformed him ape.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 25)
God save your Grace.  And yours, most noble Bardolph.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 26)
Come, you virtuous ass, you bashful fool, must you be blushing?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 27)
Wherefore blush you now? What a maidenly man-at-arms are you become!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 28)
Is 't such a matter to get a pottle-pot's maidenhead?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 29)
He calls me e'en now, my lord, through a red lattice, and could discern no part of his face from the window.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 30)
At last spied his eyes, and methought he had made two holes in the ale-wife's new petticoat and so peeped through.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 31)
Has not the boy profited?  Away, you whoreson upright rabbit, away!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 32)
Away, you rascally Althea's dream, away!  Instruct us, boy.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 33)
What dream, boy?  Marry, my lord, Althea dreamt she was delivered of a firebrand, and therefore call him her dream.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 34)
crown's worth of good interpretation. There 'tis, boy.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 35)
that this good blossom could be kept from cankers!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 36)
Well, there is sixpence to preserve thee.   An you do not make him be hanged among you, the gallows shall have wrong.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 37)
And how doth thy master, Bardolph?  Well, my good lord.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 38)
He heard of your Grace's coming to town. There's a letter for you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 39)
Delivered with good respect. And how doth the Martlemas your master?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 40)
In bodily health, sir.  Marry, the immortal part needs a physician, but that moves not him.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 41)
Though that be sick, it dies not.  do allow this wen to be as familiar with me as my dog, and he holds his place, for look you how he writes.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 42)
John Falstaff, knight. Every man must know that as oft as he has occasion to name himself, even like those that are kin to the King, for they never prick their finger but they say "There's some of the King's blood spilt.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 43)
" "How comes that?" says he that takes upon him not to conceive.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 44)
The answer is as ready as a borrower's cap: am the King's poor cousin, sir.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 45)
"  Nay, they will be kin to us, or they will fetch it from Japheth.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 46)
But to the letter:  Sir John Falstaff, knight, to the son of the King nearest his father, Harry Prince of Wales, greeting.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 47)
Why, this is a certificate.  Peace! will imitate the honorable Romans in brevity.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 48)
He sure means brevity in breath, short-winded.  commend me to thee, commend thee, and leave thee.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 49)
Be not too familiar with Poins, for he misuses thy favors so much that he swears thou art to marry his sister Nell.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 50)
Repent at idle times as thou mayst, and so farewell.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 51)
Thine by yea and no, which is as much as to say, as thou usest him, Jack Falstaff with my familiars, John with my brothers and sisters, and Sir John with all Europe.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 52)
My lord, I'll steep this letter in sack and make him eat it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 53)
That's to make him eat twenty of his words. But do you use me thus, Ned?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 54)
Must marry your sister?  God send the wench no worse fortune!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 55)
But never said so.  Well, thus we play the fools with the time, and the spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and mock us.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 56)
Is your master here in London?  Yea, my lord.  Where sups he?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 57)
Doth the old boar feed in the old frank?  At the old place, my lord, in Eastcheap.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 58)
What company?  Ephesians, my lord, of the old church.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 59)
Sup any women with him?  None, my lord, but old Mistress Quickly and Mistress Doll Tearsheet.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 60)
What pagan may that be?  proper gentlewoman, sir, and a kinswoman of my master's.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 61)
Even such kin as the parish heifers are to the town bull.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 62)
--Shall we steal upon them, Ned, at supper?  am your shadow, my lord.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 63)
I'll follow you.  Sirrah--you, boy--and Bardolph, no word to your master that am yet come to town.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 64)
There's for your silence.  have no tongue, sir.  And for mine, sir, will govern it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 65)
Fare you well. Go. This Doll Tearsheet should be some road.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 66)
warrant you, as common as the way between Saint Albans and London.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 67)
How might we see Falstaff bestow himself tonight in his true colors, and not ourselves be seen?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 68)
Put on two leathern jerkins and aprons, and wait upon him at his table as drawers.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 69)
From a god to a bull: a heavy descension. It was Jove's case.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 70)
From a prince to a 'prentice: a low transformation that shall be mine, for in everything the purpose must weigh with the folly.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 71)
2         pray thee, loving wife and gentle daughter, Give even way unto my rough affairs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 0)
Put not you on the visage of the times And be, like them, to Percy troublesome.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 1)
have given over. will speak no more. Do what you will; your wisdom be your guide.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 2)
Alas, sweet wife, my honor is at pawn, And, but my going, nothing can redeem it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 3)
yet, for God's sake, go not to these wars. The time was, father, that you broke your word When you were more endeared to it than now, When your own Percy, when my heart's dear Harry, Threw many a northward look to see his father Bring up his powers; but he did long in vain.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 4)
Who then persuaded you to stay at home? There were two honors lost, yours and your son's.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 5)
For yours, the God of heaven brighten it. For his, it stuck upon him as the sun In the gray vault of heaven, and by his light Did all the chivalry of England move To do brave acts.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 6)
He was indeed the glass Wherein the noble youth did dress themselves.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 7)
He had no legs that practiced not his gait; And speaking thick, which nature made his blemish, Became the accents of the valiant; For those that could speak low and tardily Would turn their own perfection to abuse To seem like him.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 8)
So that in speech, in gait, In diet, in affections of delight, In military rules, humors of blood, He was the mark and glass, copy and book, That fashioned others.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 9)
And him--O wondrous him! miracle of men!--him did you leave, Second to none, unseconded by you, To look upon the hideous god of war In disadvantage, to abide a field Where nothing but the sound of Hotspur's name Did seem defensible.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 10)
So you left him. Never, never, do his ghost the wrong To hold your honor more precise and nice With others than with him.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 11)
Let them alone. The Marshal and the Archbishop are strong.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 12)
Had my sweet Harry had but half their numbers, Today might hanging on Hotspur's neck, Have talked of Monmouth's grave.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 13)
Beshrew your heart, Fair daughter, you do draw my spirits from me With new lamenting ancient oversights.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 14)
But must go and meet with danger there, Or it will seek me in another place And find me worse provided.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 15)
fly to Scotland Till that the nobles and the armed commons Have of their puissance made a little taste.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 16)
If they get ground and vantage of the King, Then join you with them like a rib of steel To make strength stronger; but, for all our loves, First let them try themselves.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 17)
So did your son; He was so suffered. So came a widow, And never shall have length of life enough To rain upon remembrance with mine eyes That it may grow and sprout as high as heaven For recordation to my noble husband.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 18)
Come, come, go in with me. 'Tis with my mind As with the tide swelled up unto his height, That makes a still-stand, running neither way.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 19)
Fain would go to meet the Archbishop, But many thousand reasons hold me back.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 20)
will resolve for Scotland. There am Till time and vantage crave my company.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 21)
What the devil hast thou brought there-- applejohns?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 0)
Thou knowest Sir John cannot endure an applejohn.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 1)
Mass, thou sayst true. The Prince once set a dish of applejohns before him and told him there were five more Sir Johns and, putting off his hat, said will now take my leave of these six dry, round, old, withered knights.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 2)
" It angered him to the heart. But he hath forgot that.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 3)
Why then, cover and set them down, and see if thou canst find out Sneak's noise.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 4)
Mistress Tearsheet would fain hear some music. Dispatch.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 5)
The room where they supped is too hot. They'll come in straight.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 6)
Sirrah, here will be the Prince and Master Poins anon, and they will put on two of our jerkins and aprons, and Sir John must not know of it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 7)
Bardolph hath brought word.  By the Mass, here will be old utis.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 8)
It will be an excellent stratagem.  I'll see if can find out Sneak.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 9)
faith, sweetheart, methinks now you are in an excellent good temperality.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 10)
Your pulsidge beats as extraordinarily as heart would desire, and your color, warrant you, is as red as any rose, in good truth, la.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 11)
But, i' faith, you have drunk too much canaries, and that's a marvellous searching wine, and it perfumes the blood ere one can say "What's this?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 12)
" How do you now?  Better than was. Hem.  Why, that's well said.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 13)
good heart's worth gold. Lo, here comes Sir John.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 14)
When Arthur first in court-- Empty the jordan.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 15)
[Will exits.] And was a worthy king-- How now, Mistress Doll?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 16)
Sick of a calm, yea, good faith.  So is all her sect.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 17)
An they be once in a calm, they are sick.  pox damn you, you muddy rascal.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 18)
Is that all the comfort you give me?  You make fat rascals, Mistress Doll.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 19)
make them? Gluttony and diseases make them; make them not.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 20)
If the cook help to make the gluttony, you help to make the diseases, Doll.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 21)
We catch of you, Doll, we catch of you. Grant that, my poor virtue, grant that.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 22)
Yea, joy, our chains and our jewels.  Your brooches, pearls, and ouches--for to serve bravely is to come halting off, you know; to come off the breach with his pike bent bravely, and to surgery bravely, to venture upon the charged chambers bravely--  Hang yourself, you muddy conger, hang yourself!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 23)
By my troth, this is the old fashion. You two never meet but you fall to some discord.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 24)
You are both, i' good truth, as rheumatic as two dry toasts.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 25)
You cannot one bear with another's confirmities. What the good-year!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 26)
One must bear, and that must be you. You are the weaker vessel, as they say, the emptier vessel.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 27)
Can a weak empty vessel bear such a huge full hogshead?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 28)
There's a whole merchant's venture of Bordeaux stuff in him.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 29)
You have not seen a hulk better stuffed in the hold.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 30)
--Come, I'll be friends with thee, Jack. Thou art going to the wars, and whether shall ever see thee again or no, there is nobody cares.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 31)
Sir, Ancient Pistol's below and would speak with you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 32)
Hang him, swaggering rascal! Let him not come hither.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 33)
It is the foul-mouthed'st rogue in England.  If he swagger, let him not come here.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 34)
No, by my faith, must live among my neighbors. I'll no swaggerers.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 35)
am in good name and fame with the very best. Shut the door.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 36)
There comes no swaggerers here. have not lived all this while to have swaggering now.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 37)
Shut the door, pray you.  Dost thou hear, hostess?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 38)
Pray you pacify yourself, Sir John. There comes no swaggerers here.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 39)
Dost thou hear? It is mine ancient.  Tilly-vally, Sir John, ne'er tell me.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 40)
And your ancient swaggerer comes not in my doors.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 41)
was before Master Tisick the debuty t' other day, and, as he said to me--'twas no longer ago than Wednesday last, i' good faith--"Neighbor Quickly," says he--Master Dumb, our minister, was by then-- "Neighbor Quickly," says he, "receive those that are civil, for," said he, "you are in an ill name.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 42)
" Now he said so, can tell whereupon. "For," says he, "you are an honest woman, and well thought on.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 43)
Therefore take heed what guests you receive. Receive," says he, "no swaggering companions.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 44)
" There comes none here. You would bless you to hear what he said.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 45)
No, I'll no swaggerers.  He's no swaggerer, hostess, a tame cheater, i' faith.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 46)
You may stroke him as gently as a puppy greyhound.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 47)
He'll not swagger with a Barbary hen if her feathers turn back in any show of resistance.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 48)
-- Call him up, drawer.  "Cheater" call you him? will bar no honest man my house, nor no cheater, but do not love swaggering.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 49)
By my troth, am the worse when one says "swagger.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 50)
" Feel, masters, how shake; look you, warrant you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 51)
So you do, hostess.  Do Yea, in very truth, do an 'twere an aspen leaf.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 52)
cannot abide swaggerers.     God save you, Sir John.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 53)
Welcome, Ancient Pistol. Here, Pistol, charge you with a cup of sack.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 54)
Do you discharge upon mine hostess.  will discharge upon her, Sir John, with two bullets.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 55)
She is pistol-proof. Sir, you shall not hardly offend her.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 56)
Come, I'll drink no proofs nor no bullets. I'll drink no more than will do me good, for no man's pleasure,  Then, to you, Mistress Dorothy!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 57)
will charge you.  Charge me? scorn you, scurvy companion.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 58)
What, you poor, base, rascally, cheating lack-linen mate!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 59)
Away, you mouldy rogue, away! am meat for your master.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 60)
know you, Mistress Dorothy.  Away, you cutpurse rascal, you filthy bung, away!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 61)
By this wine, I'll thrust my knife in your mouldy chaps an you play the saucy cuttle with me.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 62)
Away, you bottle-ale rascal, you basket-hilt stale juggler, you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 63)
Since when, pray you, sir? God's light, with two points on your shoulder?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 64)
Much!  God let me not live but will murder your ruff for this.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 65)
No more, Pistol. would not have you go off here.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 66)
Discharge yourself of our company, Pistol.  No, good Captain Pistol, not here, sweet captain!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 67)
Captain? Thou abominable damned cheater, art thou not ashamed to be called captain?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 68)
An captains were of my mind, they would truncheon you out for taking their names upon you before you have earned them.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 69)
You a captain? You slave, for what? For tearing a poor whore's ruff in a bawdy house?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 70)
He a captain! Hang him, rogue. He lives upon mouldy stewed prunes and dried cakes.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 71)
captain? God's light, these villains will make the word as odious as the word "occupy," which was an excellent good word before it was ill sorted.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 72)
Therefore captains had need look to 't.  Pray thee go down, good ancient.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 73)
Hark thee hither, Mistress Doll.  Not tell thee what, Corporal Bardolph, could tear her.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 74)
I'll be revenged of her.  Pray thee go down.  I'll see her damned first to Pluto's damned lake, by this hand, to th' infernal deep with Erebus and tortures vile also.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 75)
Hold hook and line, say Down, down, dogs! Down, Fates!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 76)
Have we not Hiren here?  Good Captain Peesell, be quiet.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 77)
'Tis very late, i' faith. beseek you now, aggravate your choler.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 78)
These be good humors indeed. Shall pack-horses and hollow pampered jades of Asia, which cannot go but thirty mile a day, compare with Caesars and with cannibals and Troyant Greeks?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 79)
Nay, rather damn them with King Cerberus, and let the welkin roar.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 80)
Shall we fall foul for toys?  By my troth, captain, these are very bitter words.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 81)
Begone, good ancient. This will grow to a brawl anon.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 82)
Die men like dogs! Give crowns like pins! Have we not Hiren here?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 83)
my word, captain, there's none such here. What the good-year, do you think would deny her?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 84)
For God's sake, be quiet.  Then feed and be fat, my fair Calipolis.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 85)
Come, give 's some sack. Si fortune me tormente, sperato me contento.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 86)
Fear we broadsides? No, let the fiend give fire. Give me some sack, and, sweetheart, lie thou there.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 87)
Come we to full points here? And are etceteras nothings?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 88)
Pistol, would be quiet.  Sweet knight, kiss thy neaf.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 89)
What, we have seen the seven stars.  For God's sake, thrust him downstairs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 90)
cannot endure such a fustian rascal.  "Thrust him downstairs"?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 91)
Know we not Galloway nags?  Quoit him down, Bardolph, like a shove-groat shilling.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 92)
Nay, an he do nothing but speak nothing, he shall be nothing here.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 93)
Come, get you downstairs.  What, shall we have incision?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 94)
Shall we imbrue? Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 95)
Why then, let grievous, ghastly, gaping wounds untwind the Sisters Three.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 96)
Come, Atropos, say.  Here's goodly stuff toward!  Give me my rapier, boy.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 97)
pray thee, Jack, pray thee do not draw.  Get you downstairs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 98)
[They fight.]  Here's a goodly tumult. I'll forswear keeping house afore I'll be in these tirrits and frights.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 99)
So, murder, warrant now. Alas, alas, put up your naked weapons, put up your naked weapons.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 100)
pray thee, Jack, be quiet. The rascal's gone. Ah, you whoreson little valiant villain, you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 101)
Are you not hurt i' th' groin? Methought he made a shrewd thrust at your belly.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 102)
Have you turned him out o' doors?  Yea, sir. The rascal's drunk.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 103)
You have hurt him, sir, i' th' shoulder.  rascal to brave me!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 104)
Ah, you sweet little rogue, you. Alas, poor ape, how thou sweat'st!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 105)
Come, let me wipe thy face. Come on, you whoreson chops.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 106)
Ah, rogue, i' faith, love thee. Thou art as valorous as Hector of Troy, worth five of Agamemnon, and ten times better than the Nine Worthies.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 107)
Ah, villain!  Ah, rascally slave! will toss the rogue in a blanket.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 108)
Do, an thou darest for thy heart. An thou dost, I'll canvass thee between a pair of sheets.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 109)
The music is come, sir.  Let them play.--Play, sirs.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 110)
--Sit on my knee, Doll. rascal bragging slave! The rogue fled from me like quicksilver.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 111)
faith, and thou followed'st him like a church. Thou whoreson little tidy Bartholomew boar-pig, when wilt thou leave fighting a-days and foining a-nights and begin to patch up thine old body for heaven?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 112)
Peace, good Doll. Do not speak like a death's-head; do not bid me remember mine end.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 113)
Sirrah, what humor's the Prince of?  good shallow young fellow, he would have made a good pantler; he would 'a chipped bread well.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 114)
They say Poins has a good wit.  He a good wit? Hang him, baboon.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 115)
His wit's as thick as Tewkesbury mustard. There's no more conceit in him than is in a mallet.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 116)
Why does the Prince love him so then?  Because their legs are both of a bigness, and he plays at quoits well, and eats conger and fennel, and drinks off candles' ends for flap-dragons, and rides the wild mare with the boys, and jumps upon joint stools, and swears with a good grace, and wears his boots very smooth like unto the sign of the Leg, and breeds no bate with telling of discreet stories, and such other gambol faculties he has that show a weak mind and an able body, for the which the Prince admits him; for the Prince himself is such another.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 117)
The weight of a hair will turn the scales between their avoirdupois.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 118)
Would not this nave of a wheel have his ears cut off?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 119)
Let's beat him before his whore.  Look whe'er the withered elder hath not his poll clawed like a parrot.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 120)
Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 121)
Kiss me, Doll.  Saturn and Venus this year in conjunction!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 122)
What says th' almanac to that?  And look whether the fiery trigon, his man, be not lisping to his master's old tables, his notebook, his counsel keeper.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 123)
Thou dost give me flattering busses.  By my troth, kiss thee with a most constant heart.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 124)
am old, am old.  love thee better than love e'er a scurvy young boy of them all.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 125)
What stuff wilt thou have a kirtle of? shall receive money o' Thursday; thou shalt have a cap tomorrow.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 126)
merry song! Come, it grows late. We'll to bed. Thou 'lt forget me when am gone.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 127)
By my troth, thou 'lt set me a-weeping an thou sayst so.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 128)
Prove that ever dress myself handsome till thy return.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 129)
Well, harken a' th' end.  Some sack, Francis.  Anon, anon, sir.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 130)
Ha? bastard son of the King's?--And art not thou Poins his brother?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 131)
Why, thou globe of sinful continents, what a life dost thou lead?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 132)
better than thou. am a gentleman. Thou art a drawer.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 133)
Very true, sir, and come to draw you out by the ears.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 134)
the Lord preserve thy good Grace! By my troth, welcome to London.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 135)
Now the Lord bless that sweet face of thine. Jesu, are you come from Wales?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 136)
Thou whoreson mad compound of majesty, by this light flesh and corrupt blood, thou art welcome.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 137)
How? You fat fool, scorn you.  My lord, he will drive you out of your revenge and turn all to a merriment if you take not the heat.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 138)
You whoreson candle-mine, you, how vilely did you speak of me even now before this honest, virtuous, civil gentlewoman!(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 139)
God's blessing of your good heart, and so she is, by my troth.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 140)
Didst thou hear me?  Yea, and you knew me as you did when you ran away by Gad's Hill.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 141)
You knew was at your back, and spoke it on purpose to try my patience.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 142)
No, no, no, not so. did not think thou wast within hearing.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 143)
shall drive you, then, to confess the wilfull abuse, and then know how to handle you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 144)
No abuse, Hal, o' mine honor, no abuse.  Not to dispraise me and call me pantler and bread-chipper and know not what?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 145)
No abuse, Hal.  No abuse?  No abuse, Ned, i' th' world, honest Ned, none.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 146)
dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall in love with thee; in which doing, have done the part of a careful friend and a true subject, and thy father is to give me thanks for it.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 147)
No abuse, Hal.--None, Ned, none. No, faith, boys, none.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 148)
See now whether pure fear and entire cowardice doth not make thee wrong this virtuous gentlewoman to close with us.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 149)
Is she of the wicked, is thine hostess here of the wicked, or is thy boy of the wicked, or honest Bardolph, whose zeal burns in his nose, of the wicked?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 150)
Answer, thou dead elm, answer.  The fiend hath pricked down Bardolph irrecoverable, and his face is Lucifer's privy kitchen, where he doth nothing but roast malt-worms.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 151)
For the boy, there is a good angel about him, but the devil blinds him too.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 152)
For the women?  For one of them, she's in hell already and burns poor souls.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 153)
For th' other, owe her money, and whether she be damned for that know not.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 154)
No, warrant you.  No, think thou art not. think thou art quit for that.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 155)
Marry, there is another indictment upon thee for suffering flesh to be eaten in thy house contrary to the law, for the which think thou wilt howl.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 156)
All vitlars do so. What's a joint of mutton or two in a whole Lent?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 157)
You, gentlewoman.  What says your Grace?  His grace says that which his flesh rebels against.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 158)
Who knocks so loud at door? Look to th' door there, Francis.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 159)
Peto, how now, what news?   The King your father is at Westminster, And there are twenty weak and wearied posts Come from the north, and as came along met and overtook a dozen captains, Bareheaded, sweating, knocking at the taverns And asking everyone for Sir John Falstaff.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 160)
By heaven, Poins, feel me much to blame So idly to profane the precious time When tempest of commotion, like the south Borne with black vapor, doth begin to melt And drop upon our bare unarmed heads.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 161)
-- Give me my sword and cloak.--Falstaff, good night.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 162)
Now comes in the sweetest morsel of the night, and we must hence and leave it unpicked.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 163)
More knocking at the door?  How now, what's the matter?(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 164)
You must away to court, sir, presently. dozen captains stay at door for you.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 165)
Pay the musicians, sirrah.-- Farewell, hostess.--Farewell, Doll.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 166)
You see, my good wenches, how men of merit are sought after.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 167)
The undeserver may sleep when the man of action is called on.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 168)
Farewell, good wenches. If be not sent away post, will see you again ere go.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 169)
cannot speak. If my heart be not ready to burst--well, sweet Jack, have a care of thyself.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 170)
Farewell, farewell.   Well, fare thee well. have known thee these twenty-nine years, come peasecod time, but an honester and truer-hearted man--well, fare thee well.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 171)
Mistress Tearsheet!  What's the matter?  Bid Mistress Tearsheet come to my master.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 172)
run, Doll, run, run, good Doll. Come.-- She comes blubbered.(Henry IV, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 173)
Lord Protector, Cardinal, and Suffolk, and     Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook saw not better sport these seven years' day.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 0)
Yet, by your leave, the wind was very high, And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 1)
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made, And what a pitch she flew above the rest!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 2)
To see how God in all his creatures works! Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 3)
No marvel, an it like your Majesty, My Lord Protector's hawks do tower so well; They know their master loves to be aloft And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 4)
My lord, 'tis but a base ignoble mind That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 5)
thought as much. He would be above the clouds.   Ay, my Lord Cardinal, how think you by that?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 6)
Were it not good your Grace could fly to heaven?   The treasury of everlasting joy.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 7)
Thy heaven is on Earth; thine eyes and thoughts Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 8)
Pernicious Protector, dangerous peer, That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 9)
What, cardinal, is your priesthood grown peremptory?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 10)
Tantaene animis caelestibus irae? Churchmen so hot?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 11)
Good uncle, hide such malice. With such holiness, can you do it?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 12)
No malice, sir, no more than well becomes So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 13)
As who, my lord?  Why, as you, my lord, An 't like your lordly Lord Protectorship.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 14)
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.   And thy ambition, Gloucester.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 15)
prithee peace, Good queen, and whet not on these furious peers, For blessed are the peacemakers on Earth.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 16)
Let me be blessed for the peace make Against this proud Protector with my sword!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 17)
Faith, holy uncle, would 't were come to that!  Marry, when thou dar'st!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 18)
Make up no factious numbers for the matter. In thine own person answer thy abuse.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 19)
Ay, where thou dar'st not peep. An if thou dar'st, This evening, on the east side of the grove.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 20)
How now, my lords?  Believe me, cousin Gloucester, Had not your man put up the fowl so suddenly, We had had more sport.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 21)
Come with thy two-hand sword.   True, uncle.  Are you advised?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 22)
The east side of the grove.   am with you.  Why, how now, uncle Gloucester?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 23)
Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord. Now, by God's mother, priest, I'll shave your crown for this, Or all my fence shall fail.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 24)
Medice, teipsum; Protector, see to 't well; protect yourself.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 25)
The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 26)
How irksome is this music to my heart! When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 27)
pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.     What means this noise?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 28)
-- Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?  miracle, a miracle!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 29)
Come to the King, and tell him what miracle.   Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine Within this half hour hath received his sight, man that ne'er saw in his life before.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 30)
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 31)
bearing the man Simpcox between two in a chair,     Here comes the townsmen on procession To present your Highness with the man.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 32)
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale, Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 33)
Stand by, my masters.--Bring him near the King.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 34)
His Highness' pleasure is to talk with him.    Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance, That we for thee may glorify the Lord.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 35)
What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 36)
Born blind, an 't please your Grace.  Ay, indeed, was he.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 37)
What woman is this?  His wife, an 't like your Worship.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 38)
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have better told.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 39)
Where wert thou born?   At Berwick in the North, an 't like your Grace.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 40)
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 41)
Let never day nor night unhallowed pass, But still remember what the Lord hath done.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 42)
Tell me, good fellow, cam'st thou here by chance, Or of devotion to this holy shrine?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 43)
God knows, of pure devotion, being called hundred times and oftener in my sleep By good Saint Alban, who said "Simon, come, Come, offer at my shrine, and will help thee.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 44)
"   Most true, forsooth, and many time and oft Myself have heard a voice to call him so.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 45)
What, art thou lame?  Ay, God Almighty help me!  How cam'st thou so?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 46)
fall off of a tree.  plum tree, master.  How long hast thou been blind?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 47)
born so, master.  What, and wouldst climb a tree?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 48)
But that in all my life, when was a youth.  Too true, and bought his climbing very dear.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 49)
Mass, thou lov'dst plums well, that wouldst venture so.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 50)
Alas, good master, my wife desired some damsons, and made me climb, with danger of my life.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 51)
subtle knave, but yet it shall not serve.-- Let me see thine eyes.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 52)
Wink now. Now open them. In my opinion, yet thou seest not well.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 53)
Yes, master, clear as day, thank God and Saint Alban.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 54)
Sayst thou me so? What color is this cloak of?  Red, master, red as blood.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 55)
Why, that's well said. What color is my gown of?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 56)
Black, forsooth, coal-black as jet.   Why, then, thou know'st what color jet is of.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 57)
And yet, think, jet did he never see.   But cloaks and gowns, before this day, a many.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 58)
Never, before this day, in all his life.  Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 59)
Alas, master, know not.  What's his name?  know not.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 60)
Nor his?  No, indeed, master.  What's thine own name?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 61)
Sander Simpcox, an if it please you, master.  Then, Sander, sit there, the lying'st knave in Christendom.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 62)
If thou hadst been born blind, thou mightst as well have known all our names as thus to name the several colors we do wear.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 63)
Sight may distinguish of colors; but suddenly to nominate them all, it is impossible.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 64)
--My lords, Saint Alban here hath done a miracle; and would you not think his cunning to be great that could restore this cripple to his legs again?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 65)
master, that you could!  My masters of Saint Albans, have you not beadles in your town and things called whips?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 66)
Yes, my lord, if it please your Grace.  Then send for one presently.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 67)
Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.   Now fetch me a stool hither by and by.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 68)
Now, sirrah, if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me over this stool, and run away.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 69)
Alas, master, am not able to stand alone. You go about to torture me in vain.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 70)
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs.--Sirrah beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 71)
will, my lord.--Come on, sirrah, off with your doublet quickly.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 72)
Alas, master, what shall do? am not able to stand.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 73)
over the stool and runs away; and they follow    God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 74)
It made me laugh to see the villain run.   Follow the knave, and take this drab away.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 75)
Alas, sir, we did it for pure need.   Let them be whipped through every market town Till they come to Berwick, from whence they came.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 76)
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle today.   True, made the lame to leap and fly away.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 77)
But you have done more miracles than You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 78)
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?   Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold: sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent, Under the countenance and confederacy Of Lady Eleanor, the Protector's wife, The ringleader and head of all this rout, Have practiced dangerously against your state, Dealing with witches and with conjurers, Whom we have apprehended in the fact, Raising up wicked spirits from under ground, Demanding of King Henry's life and death And other of your Highness' Privy Council, As more at large your Grace shall understand.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 79)
And so, my Lord Protector, by this means Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 80)
This news, think, hath turned your weapon's edge; 'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 81)
Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 82)
Sorrow and grief have vanquished all my powers, And, vanquished as am, yield to thee, Or to the meanest groom.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 83)
God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones, Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 84)
Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest, And look thyself be faultless, thou wert best.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 85)
Madam, for myself, to heaven do appeal How have loved my king and commonweal; And, for my wife, know not how it stands.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 86)
Sorry am to hear what have heard. Noble she is; but if she have forgot Honor and virtue, and conversed with such As, like to pitch, defile nobility, banish her my bed and company And give her as a prey to law and shame That hath dishonored Gloucester's honest name.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 87)
Well, for this night we will repose us here. Tomorrow toward London back again, To look into this business thoroughly, And call these foul offenders to their answers, And poise the cause in Justice' equal scales, Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 0, Scene 88)
Now, my good lords of Salisbury and Warwick, Our simple supper ended, give me leave, In this close walk, to satisfy myself In craving your opinion of my title, Which is infallible, to England's crown.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 0)
My lord, long to hear it at full.   Sweet York, begin; and if thy claim be good, The Nevilles are thy subjects to command.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 1)
Then thus: Edward the Third, my lords, had seven sons: The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales; The second, William of Hatfield; and the third, Lionel, Duke of Clarence; next to whom Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster; The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York; The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester; William of Windsor was the seventh and last.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 2)
Edward the Black Prince died before his father And left behind him Richard, his only son, Who, after Edward the Third's death, reigned as king Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster, The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt, Crowned by the name of Henry the Fourth, Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king, Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came, And him to Pomfret; where, as all you know, Harmless Richard was murdered traitorously.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 3)
Father, the Duke hath told the truth. Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 4)
Which now they hold by force and not by right; For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead, The issue of the next son should have reigned.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 5)
But William of Hatfield died without an heir.   The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line claim the crown, had issue, Philippa, a daughter, Who married Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 6)
Edmund had issue, Roger, Earl of March; Roger had issue: Edmund, Anne, and Eleanor.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 7)
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke, As have read, laid claim unto the crown And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king, Who kept him in captivity till he died.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 8)
But to the rest.  His eldest sister, Anne, My mother, being heir unto the crown, Married Richard, Earl of Cambridge, who was son To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 9)
By her claim the kingdom. She was heir To Roger, Earl of March, who was the son Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippa, Sole daughter unto Lionel, Duke of Clarence.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 10)
So, if the issue of the elder son Succeed before the younger, am king.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 11)
What plain proceedings is more plain than this?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 12)
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt, The fourth son; York claims it from the third.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 13)
Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign. It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 14)
Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together, And in this private plot be we the first That shall salute our rightful sovereign With honor of his birthright to the crown.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 15)
Long live our sovereign Richard, England's king!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 16)
We thank you, lords.  But am not your king Till be crowned, and that my sword be stained With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster; And that's not suddenly to be performed, But with advice and silent secrecy.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 17)
Do you as do in these dangerous days: Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence, At Beaufort's pride, at Somerset's ambition, At Buckingham, and all the crew of them, Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock, That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 18)
'Tis that they seek; and they, in seeking that, Shall find their deaths, if York can prophesy.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 19)
My lord, break we off. We know your mind at full.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 20)
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 21)
And, Neville, this do assure myself: Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick The greatest man in England but the King.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 1, Scene 22)
(Queen Margaret, Gloucester, York, Salisbury, Suffolk, and Others) with Guard, to banish the Duchess of Gloucester, who is accompanied by Margery Jourdain,     Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 0)
In sight of God and us, your guilt is great. Receive the sentence of the law for sins Such as by God's book are adjudged to death.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 1)
You four, from hence to prison back again; From thence unto the place of execution: The witch in Smithfield shall be burnt to ashes, And you three shall be strangled on the gallows.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 2)
You, madam, for you are more nobly born, Despoiled of your honor in your life, Shall, after three days' open penance done, Live in your country here in banishment With Sir John Stanley in the Isle of Man.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 3)
Welcome is banishment. Welcome were my death.   Eleanor, the law, thou seest, hath judged thee.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 4)
cannot justify whom the law condemns.  Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 5)
Ah, Humphrey, this dishonor in thine age Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 6)
-- beseech your Majesty give me leave to go; Sorrow would solace, and mine age would ease.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 7)
Stay, Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester. Ere thou go, Give up thy staff.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 8)
Henry will to himself Protector be; and God shall be my hope, My stay, my guide, and lantern to my feet.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 9)
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved Than when thou wert Protector to thy king.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 10)
see no reason why a king of years Should be to be protected like a child.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 11)
God and King Henry govern England's realm!-- Give up your staff, sir, and the King his realm.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 12)
My staff?--Here, noble Henry, is my staff.  As willingly do the same resign As e'er thy father Henry made it mine; And even as willingly at thy feet leave it As others would ambitiously receive it.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 13)
Farewell, good king. When am dead and gone, May honorable peace attend thy throne.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 14)
Why, now is Henry king and Margaret queen, And Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, scarce himself, That bears so shrewd a maim.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 15)
Two pulls at once: His lady banished and a limb lopped off.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 16)
This staff of honor raught, there let it stand Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 17)
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays; Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 18)
Lords, let him go.--Please it your Majesty, This is the day appointed for the combat, And ready are the appellant and defendant-- The armorer and his man--to enter the lists, So please your Highness to behold the fight.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 19)
Ay, good my lord, for purposely therefor Left the court to see this quarrel tried.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 20)
God's name, see the lists and all things fit. Here let them end it, and God defend the right!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 21)
never saw a fellow worse bestead Or more afraid to fight than is the appellant, The servant of this armorer, my lords.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 22)
Neighbors, drinking to him so much that he is drunk; and he enters with a Drum before him and his staff with a sandbag fastened to it; and at the other door his man Peter, with a Drum and sandbag, and Prentices    Here, neighbor Horner, drink to you in a cup of sack; and fear not, neighbor, you shall do well enough.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 23)
And here, neighbor, here's a cup of charneco.  And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbor.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 24)
Drink, and fear not your man.  Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 25)
And a fig for Peter!  Here, Peter, drink to thee, and be not afraid.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 26)
Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master. Fight for credit of the prentices.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 27)
thank you all. Drink, and pray for me, pray you, for think have taken my last draft in this world.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 28)
Here, Robin, an if die, give thee my apron.--And, Will, thou shalt have my hammer.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 29)
-- And here, Tom, take all the money that have. Lord, bless me, pray God, for am never able to deal with my master.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 30)
He hath learnt so much fence already.  Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 31)
Sirrah, what's thy name?  Peter, forsooth.  Peter?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 32)
What more?  Thump.  Thump? Then see thou thump thy master well.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 33)
Masters, am come hither, as it were, upon my man's instigation, to prove him a knave and myself an honest man; and touching the Duke of York, will take my death never meant him any ill, nor the King, nor the Queen.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 34)
--And therefore, Peter, have at thee with a downright blow!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 35)
Dispatch. This knave's tongue begins to double. Sound, trumpets.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 36)
Alarum to the combatants!    Hold, Peter, hold! confess, confess treason.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 37)
Take away his weapon.--Fellow, thank God and the good wine in thy master's way.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 38)
God, have overcome mine enemies in this presence?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 39)
Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!   Go, take hence that traitor from our sight; For by his death we do perceive his guilt.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 40)
And God in justice hath revealed to us The truth and innocence of this poor fellow, Which he had thought to have murdered wrongfully.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 2, Scene 41)
2         Thus sometimes hath the brightest day a cloud, And after summer evermore succeeds Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold; So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 0)
Sirs, what's o'clock?  Ten, my lord.   Ten is the hour that was appointed me To watch the coming of my punished duchess.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 1)
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets, To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 2)
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook The abject people gazing on thy face With envious looks laughing at thy shame, That erst did follow thy proud chariot wheels When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 3)
But, soft! think she comes, and I'll prepare My tearstained eyes to see her miseries.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 4)
white sheet, with papers pinned to her back and a taper burning in her hand, with Sir John Stanley,     So please your Grace, we'll take her from the Sheriff.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 5)
No, stir not for your lives. Let her pass by.   Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 6)
Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze! See how the giddy multitude do point, And nod their heads, and throw their eyes on thee.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 7)
Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks, And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame, And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 8)
Be patient, gentle Nell. Forget this grief.   Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 9)
For whilst think am thy married wife And thou a prince, Protector of this land, Methinks should not thus be led along, Mailed up in shame, with papers on my back, And followed with a rabble that rejoice To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 10)
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet, And when start, the envious people laugh And bid me be advised how tread.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 11)
Ah, Humphrey, can bear this shameful yoke? Trowest thou that e'er I'll look upon the world Or count them happy that enjoys the sun?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 12)
No, dark shall be my light, and night my day. To think upon my pomp shall be my hell.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 13)
Sometimes I'll say am Duke Humphrey's wife And he a prince and ruler of the land; Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was As he stood by whilst his forlorn duchess, Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock To every idle rascal follower.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 14)
But be thou mild, and blush not at my shame, Nor stir at nothing till the ax of death Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 15)
For Suffolk, he that can do all in all With her that hateth thee and hates us all, And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest, Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings; And fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 16)
But fear not thou until thy foot be snared, Nor never seek prevention of thy foes.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 17)
Ah, Nell, forbear. Thou aimest all awry. must offend before be attainted; And had twenty times so many foes, And each of them had twenty times their power, All these could not procure me any scathe So long as am loyal, true, and crimeless.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 18)
Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach? Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away, But in danger for the breach of law.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 19)
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell. pray thee, sort thy heart to patience; These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 20)
summon your Grace to his Majesty's Parliament Holden at Bury the first of this next month.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 21)
And my consent ne'er asked herein before? This is close dealing.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 22)
Well, will be there.  My Nell, take my leave.--And, master sheriff, Let not her penance exceed the King's commission.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 23)
An 't please your Grace, here my commission stays, And Sir John Stanley is appointed now To take her with him to the Isle of Man.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 24)
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?   So am given in charge, may 't please your Grace.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 25)
Entreat her not the worse in that pray You use her well.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 26)
The world may laugh again, And may live to do you kindness, if You do it her.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 27)
And so, Sir John, farewell.   What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 28)
Witness my tears. cannot stay to speak.    Art thou gone too?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 29)
All comfort go with thee, For none abides with me.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 30)
My joy is death-- Death, at whose name oft have been afeard, Because wished this world's eternity.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 31)
-- Stanley, prithee, go, and take me hence. care not whither, for beg no favor; Only convey me where thou art commanded.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 32)
Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man, There to be used according to your state.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 33)
That's bad enough, for am but reproach. And shall then, be used reproachfully?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 34)
Like to a duchess and Duke Humphrey's lady; According to that state you shall be used.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 35)
Sheriff, farewell, and better than fare, Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 36)
It is my office; and, madam, pardon me.   Ay, ay, farewell.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 37)
Thy office is discharged.  Come, Stanley, shall we go?(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 38)
Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet, And go we to attire you for our journey.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 39)
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet. No, it will hang upon my richest robes And show itself, attire me how can.(Henry VI, Part 2, Act 3, Scene 40)
march. Enter Edward, Richard, and their power,     wonder how our princely father scaped, Or whether he be scaped away or no From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 0)
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news; Had he been slain, we should have heard the news; Or had he scaped, methinks we should have heard The happy tidings of his good escape.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 1)
How fares my brother? Why is he so sad?   cannot joy until be resolved Where our right valiant father is become.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 2)
saw him in the battle range about And watched him how he singled Clifford forth.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 3)
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop As doth a lion in a herd of neat, Or as a bear encompassed round with dogs, Who having pinched a few and made them cry, The rest stand all aloof and bark at him; So fared our father with his enemies; So fled his enemies my warlike father.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 4)
Methinks 'tis prize enough to be his son. See how the morning opes her golden gates And takes her farewell of the glorious sun.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 5)
How well resembles it the prime of youth, Trimmed like a younker, prancing to his love!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 6)
Dazzle mine eyes, or do see three suns?   Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun, Not separated with the racking clouds But severed in a pale clear-shining sky.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 7)
See, see, they join, embrace, and seem to kiss, As if they vowed some league inviolable.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 8)
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun; In this, the heaven figures some event.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 9)
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 10)
think it cites us, brother, to the field, That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet, Each one already blazing by our meeds, Should notwithstanding join our lights together And overshine the earth, as this the world.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 11)
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will bear Upon my target three fair shining suns.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 12)
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave speak it, You love the breeder better than the male.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 13)
But what art thou whose heavy looks foretell Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 14)
Ah, one that was a woeful looker-on Whenas the noble Duke of York was slain, Your princely father and my loving lord.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 15)
speak no more, for have heard too much!   Say how he died, for will hear it all.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 16)
Environed he was with many foes, And stood against them, as the hope of Troy Against the Greeks that would have entered Troy.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 17)
But Hercules himself must yield to odds; And many strokes, though with a little axe, Hews down and fells the hardest-timbered oak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 18)
By many hands your father was subdued, But only slaughtered by the ireful arm Of unrelenting Clifford and the Queen, Who crowned the gracious duke in high despite, Laughed in his face; and when with grief he wept, The ruthless queen gave him to dry his cheeks napkin steeped in the harmless blood Of sweet young Rutland, by rough Clifford slain.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 19)
And after many scorns, many foul taunts, They took his head and on the gates of York They set the same, and there it doth remain, The saddest spectacle that e'er viewed.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 20)
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon, Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 21)
Clifford, boist'rous Clifford, thou hast slain The flower of Europe for his chivalry; And treacherously hast thou vanquished him, For hand to hand he would have vanquished thee.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 22)
Now my soul's palace is become a prison; Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body Might in the ground be closed up in rest, For never henceforth shall joy again.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 23)
Never, never, shall see more joy!   cannot weep, for all my body's moisture Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart; Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burden, For selfsame wind that should speak withal Is kindling coals that fires all my breast And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 24)
To weep is to make less the depth of grief: Tears, then, for babes; blows and revenge for me.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 25)
Richard, bear thy name. I'll venge thy death Or die renowned by attempting it.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 26)
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee; His dukedom and his chair with me is left.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 27)
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird, Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun; For "chair" and "dukedom," "throne" and "kingdom" say; Either that is thine or else thou wert not his.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 28)
How now, fair lords? What fare, what news abroad?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 29)
Great lord of Warwick, if we should recount Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told, The words would add more anguish than the wounds.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 30)
valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain.   Warwick, Warwick, that Plantagenet Which held thee dearly as his soul's redemption Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 31)
Ten days ago drowned these news in tears. And now to add more measure to your woes, come to tell you things sith then befall'n.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 32)
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought, Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp, Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run, Were brought me of your loss and his depart.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 33)
then in London, keeper of the King, Mustered my soldiers, gathered flocks of friends, Marched toward Saint Albans to intercept the Queen, Bearing the King in my behalf along; For by my scouts was advertised That she was coming with a full intent To dash our late decree in Parliament Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 34)
Short tale to make, we at Saint Albans met, Our battles joined, and both sides fiercely fought.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 35)
But whether 'twas the coldness of the King, Who looked full gently on his warlike queen, That robbed my soldiers of their heated spleen, Or whether 'twas report of her success Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigor, Who thunders to his captives blood and death, cannot judge; but to conclude with truth, Their weapons like to lightning came and went; Our soldiers', like the night owl's lazy flight Or like an idle thresher with a flail, Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 36)
cheered them up with justice of our cause, With promise of high pay and great rewards, But all in vain; they had no heart to fight, And we, in them, no hope to win the day, So that we fled: the King unto the Queen; Lord George your brother, Norfolk, and myself In haste, posthaste, are come to join with you; For in the Marches here we heard you were, Making another head to fight again.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 37)
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick? And when came George from Burgundy to England?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 38)
Some six miles off the Duke is with the soldiers, And, for your brother, he was lately sent From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy, With aid of soldiers to this needful war.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 39)
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled. Oft have heard his praises in pursuit, But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 40)
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear? For thou shalt know this strong right hand of mine Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head And wring the awful scepter from his fist, Were he as famous and as bold in war As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 41)
know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not. 'Tis love bear thy glories make me speak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 42)
But in this troublous time, what's to be done? Shall we go throw away our coats of steel And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns, Numb'ring our Ave Marys with our beads?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 43)
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 44)
If for the last, say "Ay," and to it, lords.   Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out, And therefore comes my brother Montague.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 45)
Attend me, lords: the proud insulting queen, With Clifford and the haught Northumberland And of their feather many more proud birds, Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 46)
He swore consent to your succession, His oath enrolled in the Parliament.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 47)
And now to London all the crew are gone To frustrate both his oath and what beside May make against the house of Lancaster.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 48)
Their power, think, is thirty thousand strong. Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself, With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March, Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure, Will but amount to five and twenty thousand, Why, via, to London will we march, And once again bestride our foaming steeds, And once again cry "Charge!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 49)
" upon our foes, But never once again turn back and fly.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 50)
Ay, now methinks hear great Warwick speak. Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day That cries "Retire!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 51)
" if Warwick bid him stay.   Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will lean, And when thou fail'st--as God forbid the hour!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 52)
-- Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend.   No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York; The next degree is England's royal throne: For King of England shalt thou be proclaimed In every borough as we pass along, And he that throws not up his cap for joy Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 53)
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague, Stay we no longer dreaming of renown, But sound the trumpets and about our task.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 54)
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel, As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds, come to pierce it or to give thee mine.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 55)
Then strike up drums! God and Saint George for us!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 56)
How now, what news?   The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me, The Queen is coming with a puissant host, And craves your company for speedy counsel.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 57)
Why, then it sorts. Brave warriors, let's away!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 0, Scene 58)
Clifford, Northumberland, and young Prince Edward, all wearing the red rose with Drum and Trumpets,     Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 0)
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy That sought to be encompassed with your crown.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 1)
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?   Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wrack!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 2)
To see this sight, it irks my very soul. Withhold revenge, dear God!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 3)
'Tis not my fault, Nor wittingly have infringed my vow.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 4)
My gracious liege, this too much lenity And harmful pity must be laid aside.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 5)
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks? Not to the beast that would usurp their den.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 6)
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick? Not his that spoils her young before her face.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 7)
Who scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting? Not he that sets his foot upon her back.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 8)
The smallest worm will turn, being trodden on, And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 9)
Ambitious York did level at thy crown, Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 10)
He, but a duke, would have his son a king And raise his issue like a loving sire; Thou being a king, blest with a goodly son, Didst yield consent to disinherit him, Which argued thee a most unloving father.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 11)
Unreasonable creatures feed their young; And though man's face be fearful to their eyes, Yet in protection of their tender ones, Who hath not seen them, even with those wings Which sometime they have used with fearful flight, Make war with him that climbed unto their nest, Offering their own lives in their young's defense?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 12)
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent. Were it not pity that this goodly boy Should lose his birthright by his father's fault, And long hereafter say unto his child "What my great-grandfather and grandsire got, My careless father fondly gave away"?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 13)
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy, And let his manly face, which promiseth Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart To hold thine own and leave thine own with him.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 14)
Full well hath Clifford played the orator, Inferring arguments of mighty force.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 15)
But, Clifford, tell me, didst thou never hear That things ill got had ever bad success?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 16)
And happy always was it for that son Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 17)
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind, And would my father had left me no more; For all the rest is held at such a rate As brings a thousandfold more care to keep Than in possession any jot of pleasure.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 18)
Ah, cousin York, would thy best friends did know How it doth grieve me that thy head is here.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 19)
My lord, cheer up your spirits; our foes are nigh, And this soft courage makes your followers faint.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 20)
You promised knighthood to our forward son. Unsheathe your sword and dub him presently.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 21)
-- Edward, kneel down.   Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight, And learn this lesson: draw thy sword in right.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 22)
My gracious father, by your kingly leave, I'll draw it as apparent to the crown And in that quarrel use it to the death.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 23)
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.      Royal commanders, be in readiness, For with a band of thirty thousand men Comes Warwick backing of the Duke of York, And in the towns as they do march along Proclaims him king, and many fly to him.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 24)
Deraign your battle, for they are at hand.   would your Highness would depart the field.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 25)
The Queen hath best success when you are absent.   Ay, good my lord, and leave us to our fortune.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 26)
Why, that's my fortune too; therefore I'll stay.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 27)
Be it with resolution, then, to fight.   My royal father, cheer these noble lords And hearten those that fight in your defense.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 28)
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry "Saint George!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 29)
"   George, Norfolk, Montague, and Soldiers,     Now, perjured Henry, wilt thou kneel for grace And set thy diadem upon my head, Or bide the mortal fortune of the field?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 30)
Go rate thy minions, proud insulting boy. Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 31)
am his king, and he should bow his knee. was adopted heir by his consent.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 32)
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as hear, You that are king, though he do wear the crown, Have caused him, by new act of Parliament, To blot out me and put his own son in.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 33)
And reason too: Who should succeed the father but the son?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 34)
Are you there, butcher? cannot speak!   Ay, crookback, here stand to answer thee, Or any he, the proudest of thy sort.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 35)
'Twas you that killed young Rutland, was it not?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 36)
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.   For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 37)
What sayst thou, Henry? Wilt thou yield the crown?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 38)
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick, dare you speak?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 39)
When you and met at Saint Albans last, Your legs did better service than your hands.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 40)
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.   You said so much before, and yet you fled.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 41)
'Twas not your valor, Clifford, drove me thence.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 42)
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.   Northumberland, hold thee reverently.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 43)
-- Break off the parley, for scarce can refrain The execution of my big-swoll'n heart Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 44)
slew thy father; call'st thou him a child?   Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward, As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 45)
But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.   Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 46)
Defy them, then, or else hold close thy lips.   prithee, give no limits to my tongue.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 47)
am a king and privileged to speak.   My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here Cannot be cured by words; therefore, be still.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 48)
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword. By Him that made us all, am resolved That Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 49)
Say, Henry, shall have my right or no? thousand men have broke their fasts today That ne'er shall dine unless thou yield the crown.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 50)
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head, For York in justice puts his armor on.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 51)
If that be right which Warwick says is right, There is no wrong, but everything is right.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 52)
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands, For well wot thou hast thy mother's tongue.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 53)
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam, But like a foul misshapen stigmatic, Marked by the Destinies to be avoided, As venom toads or lizards' dreadful stings.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 54)
Iron of Naples, hid with English gilt, Whose father bears the title of a king, As if a channel should be called the sea, Sham'st thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught, To let thy tongue detect thy baseborn heart?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 55)
wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns To make this shameless callet know herself.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 56)
-- Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou, Although thy husband may be Menelaus; And ne'er was Agamemnon's brother wronged By that false woman as this king by thee.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 57)
His father reveled in the heart of France, And tamed the King, and made the Dauphin stoop; And had he matched according to his state, He might have kept that glory to this day.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 58)
But when he took a beggar to his bed And graced thy poor sire with his bridal day, Even then that sunshine brewed a shower for him That washed his father's fortunes forth of France And heaped sedition on his crown at home.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 59)
For what hath broached this tumult but thy pride?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 60)
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept, And we, in pity of the gentle king, Had slipped our claim until another age.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 61)
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring, And that thy summer bred us no increase, We set the axe to thy usurping root; And though the edge hath something hit ourselves, Yet know thou, since we have begun to strike, We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 62)
And in this resolution, defy thee, Not willing any longer conference, Since thou denied'st the gentle king to speak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 63)
-- Sound, trumpets! Let our bloody colors wave; And either victory or else a grave!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 64)
Stay, Edward!   No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 65)
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 1, Scene 66)
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race, lay me down a little while to breathe, For strokes received and many blows repaid Have robbed my strong-knit sinews of their strength; And spite of spite, needs must rest awhile.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 0)
Smile, gentle heaven, or strike, ungentle death, For this world frowns and Edward's sun is clouded.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 1)
How now, my lord, what hap? What hope of good?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 2)
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair; Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 3)
What counsel give you? Whither shall we fly?   Bootless is flight; they follow us with wings, And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 4)
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 5)
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk, Broached with the steely point of Clifford's lance, And in the very pangs of death he cried, Like to a dismal clangor heard from far, "Warwick, revenge!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 6)
Brother, revenge my death!" So, underneath the belly of their steeds, That stained their fetlocks in his smoking blood, The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 7)
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood! I'll kill my horse because will not fly.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 8)
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here, Wailing our losses whiles the foe doth rage, And look upon, as if the tragedy Were played in jest by counterfeiting actors?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 9)
Here on my knee vow to God above I'll never pause again, never stand still, Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine Or Fortune given me measure of revenge.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 10)
Warwick, do bend my knee with thine, And in this vow do chain my soul to thine  And, ere my knee rise from the Earth's cold face, throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to Thee, Thou setter up and plucker down of kings, Beseeching Thee, if with Thy will it stands That to my foes this body must be prey, Yet that Thy brazen gates of heaven may ope And give sweet passage to my sinful soul.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 11)
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again, Where'er it be, in heaven or in Earth.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 12)
Brother, give me thy hand.--And, gentle Warwick, Let me embrace thee in my weary arms.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 13)
that did never weep now melt with woe That winter should cut off our springtime so.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 14)
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords, farewell.   Yet let us all together to our troops And give them leave to fly that will not stay, And call them pillars that will stand to us; And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards As victors wear at the Olympian Games.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 15)
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts, For yet is hope of life and victory.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 2, Scene 16)
2         Now, Clifford, have singled thee alone. Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York, And this for Rutland, both bound to revenge, Wert thou environed with a brazen wall.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 3, Scene 0)
Now, Richard, am with thee here alone. This is the hand that stabbed thy father York, And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland, And here's the heart that triumphs in their death And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother To execute the like upon thyself.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 3, Scene 1)
And so, have at thee!      Nay, Warwick, single out some other chase, For myself will hunt this wolf to death.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 3, Scene 2)
This battle fares like to the morning's war, When dying clouds contend with growing light, What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails, Can neither call it perfect day nor night.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 0)
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea Forced by the tide to combat with the wind; Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea Forced to retire by fury of the wind.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 1)
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind; Now one the better, then another best, Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast, Yet neither conqueror nor conquered.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 2)
So is the equal poise of this fell war. Here on this molehill will sit me down.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 3)
To whom God will, there be the victory; For Margaret my queen and Clifford too Have chid me from the battle, swearing both They prosper best of all when am thence.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 4)
Would were dead, if God's good will were so, For what is in this world but grief and woe?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 5)
God! Methinks it were a happy life To be no better than a homely swain, To sit upon a hill as do now, To carve out dials quaintly, point by point, Thereby to see the minutes how they run: How many makes the hour full complete, How many hours brings about the day, How many days will finish up the year, How many years a mortal man may live.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 6)
When this is known, then to divide the times: So many hours must tend my flock, So many hours must take my rest, So many hours must contemplate, So many hours must sport myself, So many days my ewes have been with young, So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean, So many years ere shall shear the fleece; So minutes, hours, days, months, and years, Passed over to the end they were created, Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 7)
Ah, what a life were this! How sweet, how lovely!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 8)
Gives not the hawthorn bush a sweeter shade To shepherds looking on their silly sheep Than doth a rich embroidered canopy To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 9)
yes, it doth, a thousandfold it doth. And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds, His cold thin drink out of his leather bottle, His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade, All which secure and sweetly he enjoys, Is far beyond a prince's delicates-- His viands sparkling in a golden cup, His body couched in a curious bed-- When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 10)
Ill blows the wind that profits nobody. This man, whom hand to hand slew in fight, May be possessed with some store of crowns, And that haply take them from him now, May yet ere night yield both my life and them To some man else, as this dead man doth me.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 11)
Who's this? God! It is my father's face, Whom in this conflict unwares have killed.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 12)
heavy times, begetting such events! From London by the King was pressed forth.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 13)
My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man, Came on the part of York, pressed by his master.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 14)
And who at his hands received my life, Have by my hands of life bereaved him.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 15)
Pardon me, God, knew not what did; And pardon, father, for knew not thee.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 16)
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks, And no more words till they have flowed their fill.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 17)
piteous spectacle! bloody times! Whiles lions war and battle for their dens, Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 18)
Weep, wretched man. I'll aid thee tear for tear, And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war, Be blind with tears and break, o'ercharged with grief.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 19)
Thou that so stoutly hath resisted me, Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold, For have bought it with an hundred blows.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 20)
But let me see: is this our foeman's face? Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 21)
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee, Throw up thine eye!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 22)
See, see, what showers arise, Blown with the windy tempest of my heart Upon thy wounds, that kills mine eye and heart!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 23)
pity God this miserable age! What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, Erroneous, mutinous, and unnatural This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 24)
boy, thy father gave thee life too soon, And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 25)
Woe above woe, grief more than common grief! that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 26)
pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity! The red rose and the white are on his face, The fatal colors of our striving houses; The one his purple blood right well resembles, The other his pale cheeks methinks presenteth.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 27)
Wither one rose and let the other flourish; If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 28)
How will my mother for a father's death Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 29)
How will my wife for slaughter of my son Shed seas of tears and ne'er be satisfied!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 30)
How will the country for these woeful chances Misthink the King and not be satisfied!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 31)
Was ever son so rued a father's death?   Was ever father so bemoaned his son?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 32)
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe? Much is your sorrow, mine ten times so much.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 33)
I'll bear thee hence, where may weep my fill.    These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet; My heart, sweet boy, shall be thy sepulcher, For from my heart thine image ne'er shall go.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 34)
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell; And so obsequious will thy father be E'en for the loss of thee, having no more, As Priam was for all his valiant sons.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 35)
I'll bear thee hence, and let them fight that will, For have murdered where should not kill.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 36)
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care, Here sits a king more woeful than you are.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 37)
Fly, father, fly, for all your friends are fled, And Warwick rages like a chafed bull.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 38)
Away, for Death doth hold us in pursuit.   Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 39)
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds Having the fearful flying hare in sight, With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath And bloody steel grasped in their ireful hands, Are at our backs, and therefore hence amain.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 40)
Away, for Vengeance comes along with them. Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed; Or else come after; I'll away before.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 41)
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter; Not that fear to stay, but love to go Whither the Queen intends.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 4, Scene 42)
loud alarum. Enter Clifford,     Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies, Which whiles it lasted gave King Henry light.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 0)
Lancaster, fear thy overthrow More than my body's parting with my soul!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 1)
My love and fear glued many friends to thee; And now fall, thy tough commixtures melts, Impairing Henry, strength'ning misproud York; And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 2)
And who shines now but Henry's enemies? Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent That Phaeton should check thy fiery steeds, Thy burning car never had scorched the Earth!(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 3)
And Henry, hadst thou swayed as kings should do, Or as thy father and his father did, Giving no ground unto the house of York, They never then had sprung like summer flies; and ten thousand in this luckless realm Had left no mourning widows for our death, And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 4)
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air? And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 5)
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds; No way to fly, no strength to hold out flight.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 6)
The foe is merciless and will not pity, For at their hands have deserved no pity.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 7)
The air hath got into my deadly wounds, And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 8)
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest. stabbed your fathers' bosoms; split my breast.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 9)
Richard, and Soldiers, Montague, and George,     Now breathe we, lords.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 10)
Good fortune bids us pause And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 11)
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen That led calm Henry, though he were a king, As doth a sail filled with a fretting gust Command an argosy to stem the waves.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 12)
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 13)
No, 'tis impossible he should escape, For, though before his face speak the words, Your brother Richard marked him for the grave, And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 14)
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 15)
deadly groan, like life and death's departing.   See who it is; and, now the battle's ended, If friend or foe, let him be gently used.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 16)
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford, Who not contented that he lopped the branch In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth, But set his murd'ring knife unto the root From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring, mean our princely father, Duke of York.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 17)
From off the gates of York fetch down the head, Your father's head, which Clifford placed there; Instead whereof let this supply the room.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 18)
Measure for measure must be answered.   Bring forth that fatal screech owl to our house That nothing sung but death to us and ours; Now death shall stop his dismal threat'ning sound, And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 19)
think his understanding is bereft.-- Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 20)
-- Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life, And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 21)
would he did--and so, perhaps, he doth! 'Tis but his policy to counterfeit, Because he would avoid such bitter taunts Which in the time of death he gave our father.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 22)
If so thou think'st, vex him with eager words.   Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 23)
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.   Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 24)
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.   Thou didst love York, and am son to York.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 25)
Thou pitied'st Rutland; will pity thee.   Where's Captain Margaret to fence you now?(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 26)
They mock thee, Clifford; swear as thou wast wont.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 27)
What, not an oath? Nay, then, the world goes hard When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 28)
know by that he's dead; and, by my soul, If this right hand would buy but two hours' life That in all despite might rail at him, This hand should chop it off, and with the issuing blood Stifle the villain whose unstaunched thirst York and young Rutland could not satisfy.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 29)
Ay, but he's dead. Off with the traitor's head, And rear it in the place your father's stands.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 30)
And now to London with triumphant march, There to be crowned England's royal king, From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen; So shalt thou sinew both these lands together, And having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread The scattered foe that hopes to rise again; For though they cannot greatly sting to hurt, Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 31)
First will see the coronation, And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea To effect this marriage, so it please my lord.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 32)
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be; For in thy shoulder do build my seat, And never will undertake the thing Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 33)
-- Richard, will create thee Duke of Gloucester, And George, of Clarence.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 34)
Warwick as ourself Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 35)
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester, For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 36)
Tut, that's a foolish observation. Richard, be Duke of Gloucester.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 37)
Now to London, To see these honors in possession.(Henry VI, Part 3, Act 5, Scene 38)
Was not Count John here at supper?  saw him not.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 0)
How tartly that gentleman looks! never can see him but am heartburned an hour after.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 1)
He is of a very melancholy disposition.  He were an excellent man that were made just in the midway between him and Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 2)
The one is too like an image and says nothing, and the other too like my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 3)
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior Benedick's face--  With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman in the world if he could get her goodwill.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 4)
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a husband if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 5)
In faith, she's too curst.  Too curst is more than curst.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 6)
shall lessen God's sending that way, for it is said "God sends a curst cow short horns," but to a cow too curst, he sends none.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 7)
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 8)
Just, if He send me no husband, for the which blessing am at Him upon my knees every morning and evening.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 9)
Lord, could not endure a husband with a beard on his face.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 10)
had rather lie in the woolen!  You may light on a husband that hath no beard.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 11)
What should do with him? Dress him in my apparel and make him my waiting gentlewoman?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 12)
He that hath a beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no beard is less than a man; and he that is more than a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a man, am not for him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 13)
Therefore will even take sixpence in earnest of the bearherd, and lead his apes into hell.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 14)
Well then, go you into hell?  No, but to the gate, and there will the devil meet me like an old cuckold with horns on his head, and say "Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to heaven; here's no place for you maids.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 15)
" So deliver up my apes and away to Saint Peter; for the heavens, he shows me where the bachelors sit, and there live we as merry as the day is long.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 16)
Well, niece, trust you will be ruled by your father.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 17)
Yes, faith, it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy and say "Father, as it please you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 18)
" But yet for all that, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else make another curtsy and say "Father, as it please me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 19)
"  Well, niece, hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 20)
Not till God make men of some other metal than earth.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 21)
Would it not grieve a woman to be overmastered with a piece of valiant dust?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 22)
To make an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 23)
No, uncle, I'll none. Adam's sons are my brethren, and truly hold it a sin to match in my kindred.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 24)
Daughter, remember what told you. If the Prince do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 25)
The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be not wooed in good time.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 26)
If the Prince be too important, tell him there is measure in everything, and so dance out the answer.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 27)
For hear me, Hero, wooing, wedding, and repenting is as a Scotch jig, a measure, and a cinquepace.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 28)
The first suit is hot and hasty like a Scotch jig, and full as fantastical; the wedding, mannerly modest as a measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes repentance, and with his bad legs falls into the cinquepace faster and faster till he sink into his grave.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 29)
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.  have a good eye, uncle; can see a church by daylight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 30)
The revelers are entering, brother. Make good room.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 31)
Benedick, Signior Antonio, and Balthasar, all in    Lady, will you walk a bout with your friend?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 32)
So you walk softly, and look sweetly, and say nothing, am yours for the walk, and especially when walk away.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 33)
With me in your company?  may say so when please.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 34)
And when please you to say so?  When like your favor, for God defend the lute should be like the case.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 35)
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 36)
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.  Speak low if you speak love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 37)
Well, would you did like me.  So would not for your own sake, for have many ill qualities.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 38)
Which is one?  say my prayers aloud.  love you the better; the hearers may cry "Amen.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 39)
"  God match me with a good dancer.    Amen.  And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is done.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 40)
Answer, clerk.  No more words. The clerk is answered.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 41)
know you well enough. You are Signior Antonio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 42)
At a word, am not.  know you by the waggling of your head.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 43)
To tell you true, counterfeit him.  You could never do him so ill-well unless you were the very man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 44)
Here's his dry hand up and down. You are he, you are he.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 45)
At a word, am not.  Come, come, do you think do not know you by your excellent wit?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 46)
Can virtue hide itself? Go to, mum, you are he. Graces will appear, and there's an end.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 47)
Will you not tell me who told you so?  No, you shall pardon me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 48)
Nor will you not tell me who you are?  Not now.  That was disdainful, and that had my good wit out of The Hundred Merry Tales!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 49)
Well, this was Signior Benedick that said so.  What's he?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 50)
am sure you know him well enough.  Not believe me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 51)
Did he never make you laugh?  pray you, what is he?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 52)
Why, he is the Prince's jester, a very dull fool; only his gift is in devising impossible slanders.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 53)
None but libertines delight in him, and the commendation is not in his wit but in his villainy, for he both pleases men and angers them, and then they laugh at him and beat him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 54)
am sure he is in the fleet.I would he had boarded me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 55)
When know the gentleman, I'll tell him what you say.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 56)
Do, do. He'll but break a comparison or two on me, which peradventure not marked or not laughed at strikes him into melancholy, and then there's a partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no supper that night.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 57)
We must follow the leaders.  In every good thing.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 58)
Nay, if they lead to any ill, will leave them at the next turning.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 59)
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero, and hath withdrawn her father to break with him about it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 60)
The ladies follow her, and but one visor remains.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 61)
And that is Claudio. know him by his bearing.  Are not you Signior Benedick?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 62)
You know me well. am he.  Signior, you are very near my brother in his love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 63)
He is enamored on Hero. pray you dissuade him from her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 64)
She is no equal for his birth. You may do the part of an honest man in it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 65)
How know you he loves her?  heard him swear his affection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 66)
So did too, and he swore he would marry her tonight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 67)
Come, let us to the banquet.    Thus answer in name of Benedick, But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 68)
'Tis certain so. The Prince woos for himself. Friendship is constant in all other things Save in the office and affairs of love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 69)
Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 70)
Let every eye negotiate for itself And trust no agent, for beauty is a witch Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 71)
This is an accident of hourly proof, Which mistrusted not.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 72)
Farewell therefore, Hero.     Count Claudio?  Yea, the same.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 73)
Come, will you go with me?  Whither?  Even to the next willow, about your own business, county.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 74)
What fashion will you wear the garland of? About your neck like an usurer's chain?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 75)
Or under your arm like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear it one way, for the Prince hath got your Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 76)
wish him joy of her.  Why, that's spoken like an honest drover; so they sell bullocks.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 77)
But did you think the Prince would have served you thus?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 78)
pray you, leave me.  Ho, now you strike like the blind man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 79)
'Twas the boy that stole your meat, and you'll beat the post.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 80)
If it will not be, I'll leave you.  Alas, poor hurt fowl, now will he creep into sedges.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 81)
But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not know me!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 82)
The Prince's fool! Ha, it may be go under that title because am merry.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 83)
Yea, but so am apt to do myself wrong. am not so reputed!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 84)
It is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice that puts the world into her person and so gives me out.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 85)
Well, I'll be revenged as may.     Now, signior, where's the Count?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 86)
Did you see him?  Troth, my lord, have played the part of Lady Fame.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 87)
found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a warren.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 88)
told him, and think told him true, that your Grace had got the goodwill of this young lady, and offered him my company to a willow tree, either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 89)
To be whipped? What's his fault?  The flat transgression of a schoolboy who, being overjoyed with finding a bird's nest, shows it his companion, and he steals it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 90)
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The transgression is in the stealer.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 91)
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made, and the garland too, for the garland he might have worn himself, and the rod he might have bestowed on you, who, as take it, have stolen his bird's nest.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 92)
will but teach them to sing and restore them to the owner.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 93)
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith, you say honestly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 94)
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you. The gentleman that danced with her told her she is much wronged by you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 95)
she misused me past the endurance of a block! An oak but with one green leaf on it would have answered her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 96)
My very visor began to assume life and scold with her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 97)
She told me, not thinking had been myself, that was the Prince's jester, that was duller than a great thaw, huddling jest upon jest with such impossible conveyance upon me that stood like a man at a mark with a whole army shooting at me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 98)
She speaks poniards, and every word stabs. If her breath were as terrible as her terminations, there were no living near her; she would infect to the North Star.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 99)
would not marry her though she were endowed with all that Adam had left him before he transgressed.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 100)
She would have made Hercules have turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make the fire, too.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 101)
Come, talk not of her. You shall find her the infernal Ate in good apparel.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 102)
would to God some scholar would conjure her, for certainly, while she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a sanctuary, and people sin upon purpose because they would go thither.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 103)
So indeed all disquiet, horror, and perturbation follows her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 104)
Look, here she comes.  Will your Grace command me any service to the world's end?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 105)
will go on the slightest errand now to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 106)
will fetch you a toothpicker now from the furthest inch of Asia, bring you the length of Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pygmies, rather than hold three words' conference with this harpy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 107)
You have no employment for me?  None but to desire your good company.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 108)
God, sir, here's a dish love not! cannot endure my Lady Tongue.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 109)
Come, lady, come, you have lost the heart of Signior Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 110)
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile, and gave him use for it, a double heart for his single one.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 111)
Marry, once before he won it of me with false dice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 112)
Therefore your Grace may well say have lost it.  You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 113)
So would not he should do me, my lord, lest should prove the mother of fools.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 114)
have brought Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 115)
Why, how now, count, wherefore are you sad?  Not sad, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 116)
How then, sick?  Neither, my lord.  The Count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor well, but civil count, civil as an orange, and something of that jealous complexion.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 117)
faith, lady, think your blazon to be true, though I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is false.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 118)
--Here, Claudio, have wooed in thy name, and fair Hero is won.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 119)
have broke with her father and his goodwill obtained.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 120)
Name the day of marriage, and God give thee joy.  Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my fortunes.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 121)
His Grace hath made the match, and all grace say "Amen" to it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 122)
Speak, count, 'tis your cue.  Silence is the perfectest herald of joy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 123)
were but little happy if could say how much.--Lady, as you are mine, am yours.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 124)
give away myself for you and dote upon the exchange.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 125)
Speak, cousin, or, if you cannot, stop his mouth with a kiss and let not him speak neither.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 126)
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.  Yea, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 127)
thank it, poor fool, it keeps on the windy side of care.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 128)
My cousin tells him in his ear that he is in her heart.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 129)
And so she doth, cousin.  Good Lord for alliance!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 130)
Thus goes everyone to the world but and am sunburnt.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 131)
may sit in a corner and cry "Heigh-ho for a husband!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 132)
"  Lady Beatrice, will get you one.  would rather have one of your father's getting.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 133)
Hath your Grace ne'er a brother like you? Your father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 134)
Will you have me, lady?  No, my lord, unless might have another for working days.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 135)
Your Grace is too costly to wear every day. But beseech your Grace pardon me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 136)
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.  Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best becomes you, for out o' question you were born in a merry hour.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 137)
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried, but then there was a star danced, and under that was born.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 138)
--Cousins, God give you joy!  Niece, will you look to those things told you of?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 139)
cry you mercy, uncle.--By your Grace's pardon.  By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 140)
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 141)
She is never sad but when she sleeps, and not ever sad then, for have heard my daughter say she hath often dreamt of unhappiness and waked herself with laughing.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 142)
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.  by no means.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 143)
She mocks all her wooers out of suit.  She were an excellent wife for Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 144)
Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married, they would talk themselves mad.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 145)
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?  Tomorrow, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 146)
Time goes on crutches till love have all his rites.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 147)
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just sevennight, and a time too brief, too, to have all things answer my mind.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 148)
Come, you shake the head at so long a breathing, but warrant thee, Claudio, the time shall not go dully by us.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 149)
will in the interim undertake one of Hercules' labors, which is to bring Signior Benedick and the Lady Beatrice into a mountain of affection, th' one with th' other.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 150)
would fain have it a match, and doubt not but to fashion it, if you three will but minister such assistance as shall give you direction.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 151)
My lord, am for you, though it cost me ten nights' watchings.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 152)
And my lord.  And you too, gentle Hero?  will do any modest office, my lord, to help my cousin to a good husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 153)
And Benedick is not the unhopefullest husband that know.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 154)
Thus far can praise him: he is of a noble strain, of approved valor, and confirmed honesty.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 155)
will teach you how to humor your cousin that she shall fall in love with Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 156)
-- And with your two helps, will so practice on Benedick that, in despite of his quick wit and his queasy stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 157)
If we can do this, Cupid is no longer an archer; his glory shall be ours, for we are the only love gods.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 0, Scene 158)
It is so. The Count Claudio shall marry the daughter of Leonato.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 0)
Yea, my lord, but can cross it.  Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be med'cinable to me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 1)
am sick in displeasure to him, and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges evenly with mine.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 2)
How canst thou cross this marriage?  Not honestly, my lord, but so covertly that no dishonesty shall appear in me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 3)
Show me briefly how.  think told your Lordship a year since, how much am in the favor of Margaret, the waiting gentlewoman to Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 4)
remember.  can, at any unseasonable instant of the night, appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber window.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 5)
What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 6)
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to the Prince your brother; spare not to tell him that he hath wronged his honor in marrying the renowned Claudio, whose estimation do you mightily hold up, to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 7)
What proof shall make of that?  Proof enough to misuse the Prince, to vex Claudio, to undo Hero, and kill Leonato.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 8)
Look you for any other issue?  Only to despite them will endeavor anything.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 9)
Go then, find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and the Count Claudio alone.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 10)
Tell them that you know that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as in love of your brother's honor, who hath made this match, and his friend's reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the semblance of a maid, that you have discovered thus.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 11)
They will scarcely believe this without trial. Offer them instances, which shall bear no less likelihood than to see me at her chamber window, hear me call Margaret "Hero," hear Margaret term me "Claudio," and bring them to see this the very night before the intended wedding, for in the meantime will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be absent, and there shall appear such seeming truth of Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called assurance and all the preparation overthrown.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 12)
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, will put it in practice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 13)
Be cunning in the working this, and thy fee is a thousand ducats.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 14)
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning shall not shame me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 1, Scene 15)
2       Boy!     Signior?  In my chamber window lies a book.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 0)
Bring it hither to me in the orchard.  am here already, sir.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 1)
know that, but would have thee hence and here again.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 2)
do much wonder that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at such shallow follies in others, become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love--and such a man is Claudio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 3)
have known when there was no music with him but the drum and the fife, and now had he rather hear the tabor and the pipe; have known when he would have walked ten mile afoot to see a good armor, and now will he lie ten nights awake carving the fashion of a new doublet.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 4)
He was wont to speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man and a soldier, and now is he turned orthography; his words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many strange dishes.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 5)
May be so converted and see with these eyes? cannot tell; think not.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 6)
will not be sworn but love may transform me to an oyster, but I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster of me, he shall never make me such a fool.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 7)
One woman is fair, yet am well; another is wise, yet am well; another virtuous, yet am well; but till all graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in my grace.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 8)
Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise, or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her; fair, or I'll never look on her; mild, or come not near me; noble, or not for an angel; of good discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall be of what color it please God.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 9)
Ha! The Prince and Monsieur Love! will hide me in the arbor.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 10)
Come, shall we hear this music?   Yea, my good lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 11)
How still the evening is, As hushed on purpose to grace harmony!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 12)
See you where Benedick hath hid himself?   very well my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 13)
The music ended, We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 14)
Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.   good my lord, tax not so bad a voice To slander music any more than once.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 15)
It is the witness still of excellency To put a strange face on his own perfection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 16)
pray thee, sing, and let me woo no more.   Because you talk of wooing, will sing, Since many a wooer doth commence his suit To her he thinks not worthy, yet he woos, Yet will he swear he loves.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 17)
Nay, pray thee, come, Or if thou wilt hold longer argument, Do it in notes.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 18)
Note this before my notes: There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 19)
Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks! Note notes, forsooth, and nothing.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 20)
Now, divine air! Now is his soul ravished. Is it not strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out of men's bodies?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 21)
Well, a horn for my money, when all's done.   Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, Men were deceivers ever, One foot in sea and one on shore, To one thing constant never.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 22)
Then sigh not so, but let them go, And be you blithe and bonny, Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey, nonny nonny.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 23)
Sing no more ditties, sing no mo, Of dumps so dull and heavy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 24)
The fraud of men was ever so, Since summer first was leavy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 25)
Then sigh not so, but let them go, And be you blithe and bonny, Converting all your sounds of woe Into Hey, nonny nonny.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 26)
By my troth, a good song.  And an ill singer, my lord.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 27)
Ha, no, no, faith, thou sing'st well enough for a shift.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 28)
An he had been a dog that should have howled thus, they would have hanged him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 29)
And pray God his bad voice bode no mischief. had as lief have heard the night raven, come what plague could have come after it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 30)
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? pray thee get us some excellent music, for tomorrow night we would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber window.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 31)
The best can, my lord.  Do so. Farewell. Come hither, Leonato.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 32)
What was it you told me of today, that your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 33)
ay.  Stalk on, stalk on; the fowl sits.--I did never think that lady would have loved any man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 34)
No, nor neither, but most wonderful that she should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 35)
Is 't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?  By my troth, my lord, cannot tell what to think of it, but that she loves him with an enraged affection, it is past the infinite of thought.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 36)
Maybe she doth but counterfeit.  Faith, like enough.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 37)
God! Counterfeit? There was never counterfeit of passion came so near the life of passion as she discovers it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 38)
Why, what effects of passion shows she?  Bait the hook well; this fish will bite.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 39)
What effects, my lord? She will sit you--you heard my daughter tell you how.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 40)
She did indeed.  How, how pray you? You amaze me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 41)
would have thought her spirit had been invincible against all assaults of affection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 42)
would have sworn it had, my lord, especially against Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 43)
should think this a gull but that the white-bearded fellow speaks it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 44)
Knavery cannot, sure, hide himself in such reverence.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 45)
He hath ta'en th' infection. Hold it up.  Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 46)
No, and swears she never will. That's her torment.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 47)
'Tis true indeed, so your daughter says. "Shall says she, "that have so oft encountered him with scorn, write to him that love him?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 48)
"  This says she now when she is beginning to write to him, for she'll be up twenty times a night, and there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a sheet of paper.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 49)
My daughter tells us all.  Now you talk of a sheet of paper, remember a pretty jest your daughter told us of.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 50)
when she had writ it and was reading it over, she found "Benedick" and "Beatrice" between the sheet?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 51)
That.  she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence, railed at herself that she should be so immodest to write to one that she knew would flout her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 52)
measure him," says she, "by my own spirit, for should flout him if he writ to me, yea, though love him, should.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 53)
"  Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs, beats her heart, tears her hair, prays, curses: sweet Benedick, God give me patience!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 54)
"  She doth indeed, my daughter says so, and the ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter is sometimes afeared she will do a desperate outrage to herself.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 55)
It is very true.  It were good that Benedick knew of it by some other, if she will not discover it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 56)
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and torment the poor lady worse.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 57)
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an excellent sweet lady, and, out of all suspicion, she is virtuous.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 58)
And she is exceeding wise.  In everything but in loving Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 59)
my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath the victory.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 60)
am sorry for her, as have just cause, being her uncle and her guardian.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 61)
would she had bestowed this dotage on me. would have daffed all other respects and made her half myself.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 62)
pray you tell Benedick of it, and hear what he will say.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 63)
Were it good, think you?  Hero thinks surely she will die, for she says she will die if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known, and she will die if he woo her rather than she will bate one breath of her accustomed crossness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 64)
She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it, for the man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 65)
He is a very proper man.  He hath indeed a good outward happiness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 66)
Before God, and in my mind, very wise.  He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 67)
And take him to be valiant.  As Hector, assure you, and in the managing of quarrels you may say he is wise, for either he avoids them with great discretion or undertakes them with a most Christianlike fear.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 68)
If he do fear God, he must necessarily keep peace.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 69)
If he break the peace, he ought to enter into a quarrel with fear and trembling.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 70)
And so will he do, for the man doth fear God, howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests he will make.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 71)
Well, am sorry for your niece. Shall we go seek Benedick and tell him of her love?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 72)
Never tell him, my lord, let her wear it out with good counsel.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 73)
Nay, that's impossible; she may wear her heart out first.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 74)
Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 75)
Let it cool the while. love Benedick well, and could wish he would modestly examine himself to see how much he is unworthy so good a lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 76)
My lord, will you walk? Dinner is ready.   If he do not dote on her upon this, will never trust my expectation.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 77)
Let there be the same net spread for her, and that must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 78)
The sport will be when they hold one an opinion of another's dotage, and no such matter.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 79)
That's the scene that would see, which will be merely a dumb show.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 80)
Let us send her to call him in to dinner.   This can be no trick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 81)
The conference was sadly borne; they have the truth of this from Hero; they seem to pity the lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 82)
It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 83)
Why, it must be requited! hear how am censured. They say will bear myself proudly if perceive the love come from her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 84)
They say, too, that she will rather die than give any sign of affection.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 85)
did never think to marry. must not seem proud. Happy are they that hear their detractions and can put them to mending.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 86)
They say the lady is fair; 'tis a truth, can bear them witness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 87)
And virtuous; 'tis so, cannot reprove it. And wise, but for loving me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor no great argument of her folly, for will be horribly in love with her!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 88)
may chance have some odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me because have railed so long against marriage, but doth not the appetite alter?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 89)
man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 90)
Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of the brain awe a man from the career of his humor?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 91)
No! The world must be peopled. When said would die a bachelor, did not think should live till were married.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 92)
Here comes Beatrice. By this day, she's a fair lady.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 93)
do spy some marks of love in her.     Against my will, am sent to bid you come in to dinner.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 94)
Fair Beatrice, thank you for your pains.  took no more pains for those thanks than you take pains to thank me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 95)
If it had been painful, would not have come.  You take pleasure then in the message?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 96)
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's point and choke a daw withal.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 97)
You have no stomach, signior. Fare you well.  Ha!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 98)
"Against my will am sent to bid you come in to dinner.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 99)
" There's a double meaning in that. took no more pains for those thanks than you took pains to thank me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 100)
" That's as much as to say "Any pains that take for you is as easy as thanks.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 101)
" If do not take pity of her, am a villain; if do not love her, am a Jew.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 2, Scene 102)
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor. There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice Proposing with the Prince and Claudio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 0)
Whisper her ear and tell her and Ursula Walk in the orchard, and our whole discourse Is all of her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 1)
Say that thou overheardst us, And bid her steal into the pleached bower Where honeysuckles ripened by the sun Forbid the sun to enter, like favorites, Made proud by princes, that advance their pride Against that power that bred it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 2)
There will she hide her To listen our propose. This is thy office.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 3)
Bear thee well in it, and leave us alone.   I'll make her come, warrant you, presently.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 4)
Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come, As we do trace this alley up and down, Our talk must only be of Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 5)
When do name him, let it be thy part To praise him more than ever man did merit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 6)
My talk to thee must be how Benedick Is sick in love with Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 7)
Of this matter Is little Cupid's crafty arrow made, That only wounds by hearsay.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 8)
Now begin, For look where Beatrice like a lapwing runs Close by the ground, to hear our conference.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 9)
The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish Cut with her golden oars the silver stream And greedily devour the treacherous bait.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 10)
So angle we for Beatrice, who even now Is couched in the woodbine coverture.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 11)
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.   Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 12)
--  No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful. know her spirits are as coy and wild As haggards of the rock.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 13)
But are you sure That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 14)
So says the Prince and my new-trothed lord.   And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 15)
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it, But persuaded them, if they loved Benedick, To wish him wrestle with affection And never to let Beatrice know of it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 16)
Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman Deserve as full as fortunate a bed As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 17)
god of love! know he doth deserve As much as may be yielded to a man, But Nature never framed a woman's heart Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 18)
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes, Misprizing what they look on, and her wit Values itself so highly that to her All matter else seems weak.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 19)
She cannot love, Nor take no shape nor project of affection, She is so self-endeared.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 20)
Sure, think so, And therefore certainly it were not good She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 21)
Why, you speak truth. never yet saw man, How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured, But she would spell him backward.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 22)
If fair-faced, She would swear the gentleman should be her sister; If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antic, Made a foul blot; if tall, a lance ill-headed; If low, an agate very vilely cut; If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds; If silent, why, a block moved with none.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 23)
So turns she every man the wrong side out, And never gives to truth and virtue that Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 24)
Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.   No, not to be so odd and from all fashions As Beatrice is cannot be commendable.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 25)
But who dare tell her so? If should speak, She would mock me into air.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 26)
she would laugh me Out of myself, press me to death with wit.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 27)
Therefore let Benedick, like covered fire, Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 28)
It were a better death than die with mocks, Which is as bad as die with tickling.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 29)
Yet tell her of it. Hear what she will say.   No, rather will go to Benedick And counsel him to fight against his passion; And truly I'll devise some honest slanders To stain my cousin with.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 30)
One doth not know How much an ill word may empoison liking.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 31)
do not do your cousin such a wrong! She cannot be so much without true judgment, Having so swift and excellent a wit As she is prized to have, as to refuse So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 32)
He is the only man of Italy, Always excepted my dear Claudio.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 33)
pray you be not angry with me, madam, Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick, For shape, for bearing, argument, and valor, Goes foremost in report through Italy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 34)
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.   His excellence did earn it ere he had it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 35)
When are you married, madam?   Why, every day, tomorrow.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 36)
Come, go in. I'll show thee some attires and have thy counsel Which is the best to furnish me tomorrow.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 37)
She's limed, warrant you. We have caught her, madam.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 38)
If it prove so, then loving goes by haps; Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 39)
What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true? Stand condemned for pride and scorn so much?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 40)
Contempt, farewell, and maiden pride, adieu! No glory lives behind the back of such.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 41)
And Benedick, love on; will requite thee, Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 42)
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee To bind our loves up in a holy band.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 43)
For others say thou dost deserve, and Believe it better than reportingly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 17, Scene 44)
do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and then go toward Aragon.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 0)
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll vouchsafe me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 1)
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss of your marriage as to show a child his new coat and forbid him to wear it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 2)
will only be bold with Benedick for his company, for from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot he is all mirth.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 3)
He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowstring, and the little hangman dare not shoot at him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 4)
He hath a heart as sound as a bell, and his tongue is the clapper, for what his heart thinks, his tongue speaks.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 5)
Gallants, am not as have been.  So say Methinks you are sadder.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 6)
hope he be in love.  Hang him, truant! There's no true drop of blood in him to be truly touched with love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 7)
If he be sad, he wants money.  have the toothache.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 8)
Draw it.  Hang it!  You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 9)
What, sigh for the toothache?  Where is but a humor or a worm.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 10)
Well, everyone can master a grief but he that has it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 11)
Yet say he is in love.  There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be a fancy that he hath to strange disguises, as to be a Dutchman today, a Frenchman tomorrow, or in the shape of two countries at once, as a German from the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from the hip upward, no doublet.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 12)
Unless he have a fancy to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 13)
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing old signs.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 14)
He brushes his hat o' mornings. What should that bode?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 15)
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?  No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him, and the old ornament of his cheek hath already stuffed tennis balls.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 16)
Indeed he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 17)
Nay, he rubs himself with civet. Can you smell him out by that?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 18)
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 19)
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.  And when was he wont to wash his face?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 20)
Yea, or to paint himself? For the which hear what they say of him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 21)
Nay, but his jesting spirit, which is now crept into a lute string and now governed by stops--  Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 22)
Conclude, conclude, he is in love.  Nay, but know who loves him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 23)
That would know, too. warrant, one that knows him not.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 24)
Yes, and his ill conditions; and, in despite of all, dies for him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 25)
She shall be buried with her face upwards.  Yet is this no charm for the toothache.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 26)
-- Old signior, walk aside with me. have studied eight or nine wise words to speak to you, which these hobby-horses must not hear.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 27)
For my life, to break with him about Beatrice!  'Tis even so.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 28)
Hero and Margaret have by this played their parts with Beatrice, and then the two bears will not bite one another when they meet.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 29)
My lord and brother, God save you.  Good e'en, brother.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 30)
If your leisure served, would speak with you.  In private?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 31)
If it please you. Yet Count Claudio may hear, for what would speak of concerns him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 32)
What's the matter?  Means your Lordship to be married tomorrow?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 33)
You know he does.  know not that, when he knows what know.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 34)
If there be any impediment, pray you discover it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 35)
You may think love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and aim better at me by that now will manifest.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 36)
For my brother, think he holds you well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect your ensuing marriage--surely suit ill spent and labor ill bestowed.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 37)
Why, what's the matter?  came hither to tell you; and, circumstances shortened, for she has been too long a-talking of, the lady is disloyal.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 38)
Who, Hero?  Even she: Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 39)
Disloyal?  The word is too good to paint out her wickedness.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 40)
could say she were worse. Think you of a worse title, and will fit her to it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 41)
Wonder not till further warrant. Go but with me tonight, you shall see her chamber window entered, even the night before her wedding day.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 42)
If you love her then, tomorrow wed her. But it would better fit your honor to change your mind.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 43)
May this be so?  will not think it.  If you dare not trust that you see, confess not that you know.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 44)
If you will follow me, will show you enough, and when you have seen more and heard more, proceed accordingly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 45)
If see anything tonight why should not marry her, tomorrow in the congregation, where should wed, there will shame her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 46)
And as wooed for thee to obtain her, will join with thee to disgrace her.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 47)
will disparage her no farther till you are my witnesses.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 48)
Bear it coldly but till midnight, and let the issue show itself.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 49)
day untowardly turned!  mischief strangely thwarting!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 50)
plague right well prevented! So will you say when you have seen the sequel.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 18, Scene 51)
3        Are you good men and true?  Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer salvation, body and soul.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 0)
Nay, that were a punishment too good for them if they should have any allegiance in them, being chosen for the Prince's watch.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 1)
Well, give them their charge, neighbor Dogberry.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 2)
First, who think you the most desartless man to be constable?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 3)
Hugh Oatcake, sir, or George Seacoal, for they can write and read.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 4)
Come hither, neighbor Seacoal. God hath blessed you with a good name.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 5)
To be a well-favored man is the gift of fortune, but to write and read comes by nature.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 6)
Both which, master constable--  You have. knew it would be your answer.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 7)
Well, for your favor, sir, why, give God thanks, and make no boast of it, and for your writing and reading, let that appear when there is no need of such vanity.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 8)
You are thought here to be the most senseless and fit man for the constable of the watch; therefore bear you the lantern.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 9)
This is your charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are to bid any man stand, in the Prince's name.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 10)
How if he will not stand?  Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go, and presently call the rest of the watch together and thank God you are rid of a knave.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 11)
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none of the Prince's subjects.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 12)
True, and they are to meddle with none but the Prince's subjects.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 13)
--You shall also make no noise in the streets; for, for the watch to babble and to talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 14)
We will rather sleep than talk. We know what belongs to a watch.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 15)
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet watchman, for cannot see how sleeping should offend; only have a care that your bills be not stolen.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 16)
Well, you are to call at all the alehouses and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 17)
How if they will not?  Why then, let them alone till they are sober.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 18)
If they make you not then the better answer, you may say they are not the men you took them for.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 19)
Well, sir.  If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue of your office, to be no true man, and for such kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them, why, the more is for your honesty.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 20)
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay hands on him?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 21)
Truly, by your office you may, but think they that touch pitch will be defiled.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 22)
The most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 23)
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 24)
Truly, would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who hath any honesty in him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 25)
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call to the nurse and bid her still it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 26)
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 27)
Why, then depart in peace, and let the child wake her with crying, for the ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas will never answer a calf when he bleats.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 28)
'Tis very true.  This is the end of the charge. You, constable, are to present the Prince's own person.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 29)
If you meet the Prince in the night, you may stay him.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 30)
Nay, by 'r Lady, that think he cannot.  Five shillings to one on 't, with any man that knows the statutes, he may stay him--marry, not without the Prince be willing, for indeed the watch ought to offend no man, and it is an offense to stay a man against his will.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 31)
By 'r Lady, think it be so.  Ha, ah ha!--Well, masters, goodnight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 32)
An there be any matter of weight chances, call up me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 33)
Keep your fellows' counsels and your own, and goodnight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 34)
--Come, neighbor.   Well, masters, we hear our charge.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 35)
Let us go sit here upon the church bench till two, and then all to bed.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 36)
One word more, honest neighbors. pray you watch about Signior Leonato's door, for the wedding being there tomorrow, there is a great coil tonight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 37)
Adieu, be vigitant, beseech you.      What, Conrade!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 38)
Peace, stir not.  Conrade, say!  Here, man, am at thy elbow.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 39)
Mass, and my elbow itched, thought there would a scab follow.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 40)
will owe thee an answer for that. And now forward with thy tale.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 41)
Stand thee close, then, under this penthouse, for it drizzles rain, and will, like a true drunkard, utter all to thee.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 42)
Some treason, masters. Yet stand close.  Therefore know, have earned of Don John a thousand ducats.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 43)
Is it possible that any villainy should be so dear?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 44)
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any villainy should be so rich.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 45)
For when rich villains have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what price they will.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 46)
wonder at it.  That shows thou art unconfirmed. Thou knowest that the fashion of a doublet, or a hat, or a cloak, is nothing to a man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 47)
Yes, it is apparel.  mean the fashion.  Yes, the fashion is the fashion.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 48)
Tush, may as well say the fool's the fool. But seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion is?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 49)
know that Deformed. He has been a vile thief this seven year.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 50)
He goes up and down like a gentleman. remember his name.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 51)
Didst thou not hear somebody?  No, 'twas the vane on the house.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 52)
Seest thou not, say, what a deformed thief this fashion is, how giddily he turns about all the hot bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty, sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers in the reechy painting, sometimes like god Bel's priests in the old church window, sometimes like the shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry, where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 53)
All this see, and see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 54)
But art not thou thyself giddy with the fashion too, that thou hast shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 55)
Not so, neither. But know that have tonight wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the name of Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 56)
She leans me out at her mistress' chamber window, bids me a thousand times goodnight.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 57)
tell this tale vilely. should first tell thee how the Prince, Claudio, and my master, planted and placed and possessed by my master Don John, saw afar off in the orchard this amiable amiable encounter.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 58)
And thought they Margaret was Hero?  Two of them did, the Prince and Claudio, but the devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly by my villainy, which did confirm any slander that Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged, swore he would meet her as he was appointed next morning at the temple, and there, before the whole congregation, shame her with what he saw o'ernight and send her home again without a husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 59)
We charge you in the Prince's name stand!  Call up the right Master Constable.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 60)
We have here recovered the most dangerous piece of lechery that ever was known in the commonwealth.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 61)
And one Deformed is one of them. know him; he wears a lock.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 62)
Masters, masters--  You'll be made bring Deformed forth, warrant you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 63)
Masters, never speak, we charge you, let us obey you to go with us.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 64)
We are like to prove a goodly commodity, being taken up of these men's bills.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 65)
commodity in question, warrant you.-- Come, we'll obey you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 19, Scene 66)
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice and desire her to rise.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 0)
will, lady.  And bid her come hither.  Well.  Troth, think your other rebato were better.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 1)
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.  By my troth, 's not so good, and warrant your cousin will say so.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 2)
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another. I'll wear none but this.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 3)
like the new tire within excellently, if the hair were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare fashion, i' faith.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 4)
saw the Duchess of Milan's gown that they praise so.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 5)
that exceeds, they say.  By my troth, 's but a nightgown in respect of yours--cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves, and skirts round underborne with a bluish tinsel.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 6)
But for a fine, quaint, graceful, and excellent fashion, yours is worth ten on 't.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 7)
God give me joy to wear it, for my heart is exceeding heavy.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 8)
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.  Fie upon thee!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 9)
Art not ashamed?  Of what, lady? Of speaking honorably?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 10)
Is not marriage honorable in a beggar? Is not your lord honorable without marriage?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 11)
think you would have me say "Saving your reverence, a husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 12)
" An bad thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend nobody.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 13)
Is there any harm in "the heavier for a husband"?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 14)
None, think, an it be the right husband and the right wife.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 15)
Otherwise, 'tis light and not heavy. Ask my lady Beatrice else.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 16)
Here she comes.     Good morrow, coz.  Good morrow, sweet Hero.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 17)
Why, how now? Do you speak in the sick tune?  am out of all other tune, methinks.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 18)
Clap 's into "Light o' love." That goes without a burden.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 19)
Do you sing it, and I'll dance it.  You light o' love with your heels!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 20)
Then, if your husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall lack no barns.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 21)
illegitimate construction! scorn that with my heels.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 22)
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin. 'Tis time you were ready.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 23)
By my troth, am exceeding ill. Heigh-ho!  For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 24)
For the letter that begins them all,  Well, an you be not turned Turk, there's no more sailing by the star.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 25)
What means the fool, trow?  Nothing, but God send everyone their heart's desire.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 26)
These gloves the Count sent me, they are an excellent perfume.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 27)
am stuffed, cousin. cannot smell.  maid, and stuffed!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 28)
There's goodly catching of cold.  God help me, God help me!(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 29)
How long have you professed apprehension?  Ever since you left it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 30)
Doth not my wit become me rarely?  It is not seen enough; you should wear it in your cap.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 31)
By my troth, am sick.  Get you some of this distilled carduus benedictus and lay it to your heart.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 32)
It is the only thing for a qualm.  There thou prick'st her with a thistle.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 33)
Benedictus! Why benedictus? You have some moral in this benedictus?(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 34)
Moral? No, by my troth, have no moral meaning; meant plain holy thistle.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 35)
You may think perchance that think you are in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 36)
Nay, by 'r Lady, am not such a fool to think what list, nor list not to think what can, nor indeed cannot think, if would think my heart out of thinking, that you are in love or that you will be in love or that you can be in love.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 37)
Yet Benedick was such another, and now is he become a man.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 38)
He swore he would never marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats his meat without grudging.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 39)
And how you may be converted know not, but methinks you look with your eyes as other women do.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 40)
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?  Not a false gallop.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 41)
Madam, withdraw. The Prince, the Count, Signior Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the town are come to fetch you to church.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 42)
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 20, Scene 43)
What would you with me, honest neighbor?  Marry, sir, would have some confidence with you that decerns you nearly.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 0)
Brief, pray you, for you see it is a busy time with me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 1)
Marry, this it is, sir.  Yes, in truth, it is, sir.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 2)
What is it, my good friends?  Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the matter.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 3)
An old man, sir, and his wits are not so blunt as, God help, would desire they were, but, in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 4)
Yes, thank God am as honest as any man living that is an old man and no honester than  Comparisons are odorous.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 5)
Palabras, neighbor Verges.  Neighbors, you are tedious.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 6)
It pleases your Worship to say so, but we are the poor duke's officers.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 7)
But truly, for mine own part, if were as tedious as a king, could find in my heart to bestow it all of your Worship.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 8)
All thy tediousness on me, ah?  Yea, an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis, for hear as good exclamation on your Worship as of any man in the city, and though be but a poor man, am glad to hear it.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 9)
And so am  would fain know what you have to say.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 10)
Marry, sir, our watch tonight, excepting your Worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant knaves as any in Messina.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 11)
good old man, sir. He will be talking. As they say, "When the age is in, the wit is out.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 12)
" God help us, it is a world to see!--Well said, i' faith, neighbor Verges.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 13)
--Well, God's a good man. An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 14)
An honest soul, i' faith, sir, by my troth he is, as ever broke bread, but God is to be worshiped, all men are not alike, alas, good neighbor.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 15)
Indeed, neighbor, he comes too short of you.  Gifts that God gives.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 16)
must leave you.  One word, sir. Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would have them this morning examined before your Worship.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 17)
Take their examination yourself and bring it me.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 18)
am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 19)
It shall be suffigance.  Drink some wine ere you go.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 20)
Fare you well.     My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to her husband.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 21)
I'll wait upon them. am ready.   Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacoal.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 22)
Bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the jail. We are now to examination these men.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 23)
And we must do it wisely.  We will spare for no wit, warrant you.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 24)
Here's that shall drive some of them to a noncome.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 25)
Only get the learned writer to set down our excommunication and meet me at the jail.(Much Ado About Nothing, Act 21, Scene 26)
If the great gods be just, they shall assist The deeds of justest men.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 0)
Know, worthy Pompey, That what they do delay they not deny.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 1)
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays The thing we sue for.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 2)
We, ignorant of ourselves, Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers Deny us for our good; so find we profit By losing of our prayers.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 3)
shall do well. The people love me, and the sea is mine; My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope Says it will come to th' full.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 4)
Mark Antony In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make No wars without doors.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 5)
Caesar gets money where He loses hearts. Lepidus flatters both, Of both is flattered; but he neither loves, Nor either cares for him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 6)
Caesar and Lepidus Are in the field. mighty strength they carry.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 7)
Where have you this? 'Tis false.  From Silvius, sir.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 8)
He dreams. know they are in Rome together, Looking for Antony.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 9)
But all the charms of love, Salt Cleopatra, soften thy wanned lip!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 10)
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both; Tie up the libertine in a field of feasts; Keep his brain fuming.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 11)
Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite, That sleep and feeding may prorogue his honor Even till a Lethe'd dullness--    How now, Varrius?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 12)
This is most certain that shall deliver: Mark Antony is every hour in Rome Expected.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 13)
Since he went from Egypt 'tis space for farther travel.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 14)
could have given less matter better ear.--Menas, did not think This amorous surfeiter would have donned his helm For such a petty war.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 15)
His soldiership Is twice the other twain. But let us rear The higher our opinion, that our stirring Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck The ne'er lust-wearied Antony.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 16)
cannot hope Caesar and Antony shall well greet together.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 17)
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar; His brother warred upon him, although think Not moved by Antony.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 18)
know not, Menas, How lesser enmities may give way to greater.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 19)
Were 't not that we stand up against them all, 'Twere pregnant they should square between themselves, For they have entertained cause enough To draw their swords.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 20)
But how the fear of us May cement their divisions and bind up The petty difference, we yet not know.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 21)
Be 't as our gods will have 't. It only stands Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 0, Scene 22)
Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed, And shall become you well, to entreat your captain To soft and gentle speech.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 0)
shall entreat him To answer like himself. If Caesar move him, Let Antony look over Caesar's head And speak as loud as Mars.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 1)
By Jupiter, Were the wearer of Antonio's beard, would not shave 't today.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 2)
'Tis not a time for private stomaching.  Every time serves for the matter that is then born in 't.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 3)
But small to greater matters must give way.  Not if the small come first.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 4)
Your speech is passion; but pray you stir No embers up.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 5)
Here comes the noble Antony.     And yonder Caesar.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 6)
If we compose well here, to Parthia. Hark, Ventidius.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 7)
do not know, Maecenas. Ask Agrippa.  Noble friends, That which combined us was most great, and let not leaner action rend us.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 8)
What's amiss, May it be gently heard. When we debate Our trivial difference loud, we do commit Murder in healing wounds.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 9)
Then, noble partners, The rather for earnestly beseech, Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms, Nor curstness grow to th' matter.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 10)
'Tis spoken well. Were we before our armies, and to fight, should do thus.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 11)
Welcome to Rome.  Thank you.  Sit.  Sit, sir.  Nay, then.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 12)
learn you take things ill which are not so, Or, being, concern you not.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 13)
must be laughed at If or for nothing or a little, Should say myself offended, and with you Chiefly i' th' world; more laughed at, that should Once name you derogately when to sound your name It not concerned me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 14)
My being in Egypt, Caesar, what was 't to you?   No more than my residing here at Rome Might be to you in Egypt.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 15)
Yet if you there Did practice on my state, your being in Egypt Might be my question.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 16)
How intend you, practiced?   You may be pleased to catch at mine intent By what did here befall me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 17)
Your wife and brother Made wars upon me, and their contestation Was theme for you; you were the word of war.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 18)
You do mistake your business. My brother never Did urge me in his act.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 19)
did inquire it, And have my learning from some true reports That drew their swords with you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 20)
Did he not rather Discredit my authority with yours, And make the wars alike against my stomach, Having alike your cause?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 21)
Of this my letters Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel, As matter whole you have to make it with, It must not be with this.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 22)
You praise yourself By laying defects of judgment to me; but You patched up your excuses.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 23)
Not so, not so. know you could not lack--I am certain on 't-- Very necessity of this thought, that Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought, Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars Which fronted mine own peace.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 24)
As for my wife, would you had her spirit in such another.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 25)
The third o' th' world is yours, which with a snaffle You may pace easy, but not such a wife.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 26)
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go to wars with the women!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 27)
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar, Made out of her impatience--which not wanted Shrewdness of policy too--I grieving grant Did you too much disquiet.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 28)
For that you must But say could not help it.  wrote to you When rioting in Alexandria; you Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts Did gibe my missive out of audience.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 29)
Sir, He fell upon me ere admitted, then; Three kings had newly feasted, and did want Of what was i' th' morning.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 30)
But next day told him of myself, which was as much As to have asked him pardon.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 31)
Let this fellow Be nothing of our strife; if we contend, Out of our question wipe him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 32)
You have broken The article of your oath, which you shall never Have tongue to charge me with.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 33)
Soft, Caesar!  No, Lepidus, let him speak. The honor is sacred which he talks on now, Supposing that lacked it.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 34)
--But on, Caesar: The article of my oath?   To lend me arms and aid when required them, The which you both denied.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 35)
Neglected, rather; And then when poisoned hours had bound me up From mine own knowledge.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 36)
As nearly as may I'll play the penitent to you. But mine honesty Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power Work without it.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 37)
Truth is that Fulvia, To have me out of Egypt, made wars here, For which myself, the ignorant motive, do So far ask pardon as befits mine honor To stoop in such a case.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 38)
'Tis noble spoken.   If it might please you to enforce no further The griefs between you, to forget them quite Were to remember that the present need Speaks to atone you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 39)
Worthily spoken, Maecenas.  Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant, you may, when you hear no more words of Pompey, return it again.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 40)
You shall have time to wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 41)
Thou art a soldier only. Speak no more.  That truth should be silent had almost forgot.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 42)
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 43)
Go to, then. Your considerate stone.   do not much dislike the matter, but The manner of his speech; for 't cannot be We shall remain in friendship, our conditions So diff'ring in their acts.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 44)
Yet if knew What hoop should hold us staunch, from edge to edge th' world would pursue it.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 45)
Give me leave, Caesar.  Speak, Agrippa.   Thou hast a sister by the mother's side, Admired Octavia.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 46)
Great Mark Antony Is now a widower.  Say not so, Agrippa.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 47)
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof Were well deserved of rashness.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 48)
am not married, Caesar. Let me hear Agrippa further speak.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 49)
To hold you in perpetual amity, To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts With an unslipping knot, take Antony Octavia to his wife, whose beauty claims No worse a husband than the best of men; Whose virtue and whose general graces speak That which none else can utter.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 50)
By this marriage All little jealousies, which now seem great, And all great fears, which now import their dangers, Would then be nothing.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 51)
Truths would be tales, Where now half-tales be truths.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 52)
Her love to both Would each to other and all loves to both Draw after her.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 53)
Pardon what have spoke, For 'tis a studied, not a present thought, By duty ruminated.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 54)
Will Caesar speak?   Not till he hears how Antony is touched With what is spoke already.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 55)
What power is in Agrippa, If would say "Agrippa, be it so," To make this good?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 56)
The power of Caesar, and His power unto Octavia.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 57)
May never To this good purpose, that so fairly shows, Dream of impediment.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 58)
Let me have thy hand. Further this act of grace; and from this hour The heart of brothers govern in our loves And sway our great designs.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 59)
There's my hand.  sister bequeath you whom no brother Did ever love so dearly.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 60)
Let her live To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never Fly off our loves again.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 61)
Happily, amen!   did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey, For he hath laid strange courtesies and great Of late upon me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 62)
must thank him only, Lest my remembrance suffer ill report; At heel of that, defy him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 63)
Time calls upon 's. Of us must Pompey presently be sought, Or else he seeks out us.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 64)
Where lies he?  About the Mount Misena.  What is his strength by land?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 65)
Great and increasing; But by sea he is an absolute master.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 66)
So is the fame. Would we had spoke together. Haste we for it.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 67)
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we The business we have talked of.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 68)
With most gladness, And do invite you to my sister's view, Whither straight I'll lead you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 69)
Let us, Lepidus, not lack your company.   Noble Antony, not sickness should detain me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 70)
Welcome from Egypt, sir.  Half the heart of Caesar, worthy Maecenas!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 71)
--My honorable friend Agrippa!  Good Enobarbus!  We have cause to be glad that matters are so well digested.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 72)
You stayed well by 't in Egypt.  Ay, sir, we did sleep day out of countenance and made the night light with drinking.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 73)
Eight wild boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and but twelve persons there.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 74)
Is this true?  This was but as a fly by an eagle.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 75)
We had much more monstrous matter of feast, which worthily deserved noting.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 76)
She's a most triumphant lady, if report be square to her.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 77)
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up his heart upon the river of Cydnus.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 78)
There she appeared indeed, or my reporter devised well for her.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 79)
will tell you. The barge she sat in like a burnished throne Burned on the water.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 80)
The poop was beaten gold, Purple the sails, and so perfumed that The winds were lovesick with them.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 81)
The oars were silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made The water which they beat to follow faster, As amorous of their strokes.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 82)
For her own person, It beggared all description: she did lie In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold, of tissue-- O'erpicturing that Venus where we see The fancy outwork nature.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 83)
On each side her Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids, With divers-colored fans, whose wind did seem To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool, And what they undid did.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 84)
rare for Antony!   Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides, So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes, And made their bends adornings.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 85)
At the helm seeming mermaid steers. The silken tackle Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands That yarely frame the office.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 86)
From the barge strange invisible perfume hits the sense Of the adjacent wharfs.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 87)
The city cast Her people out upon her; and Antony, Enthroned i' th' market-place, did sit alone, Whistling to th' air, which but for vacancy Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too And made a gap in nature.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 88)
Rare Egyptian!   Upon her landing, Antony sent to her, Invited her to supper.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 89)
She replied It should be better he became her guest, Which she entreated.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 90)
Our courteous Antony, Whom ne'er the word of "No" woman heard speak, Being barbered ten times o'er, goes to the feast, And for his ordinary pays his heart For what his eyes eat only.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 91)
Royal wench! She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed; He ploughed her, and she cropped.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 92)
saw her once Hop forty paces through the public street, And having lost her breath, she spoke and panted, That she did make defect perfection, And breathless pour breath forth.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 93)
Now Antony must leave her utterly.  Never. He will not.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 94)
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 95)
Other women cloy The appetites they feed, but she makes hungry Where most she satisfies.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 96)
For vilest things Become themselves in her, that the holy priests Bless her when she is riggish.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 97)
If beauty, wisdom, modesty can settle The heart of Antony, Octavia is blessed lottery to him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 98)
Let us go. Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest Whilst you abide here.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 1, Scene 99)
The world and my great office will sometimes Divide me from your bosom.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 0)
All which time Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers To them for you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 1)
Goodnight, sir.--My Octavia, Read not my blemishes in the world's report.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 2)
have not kept my square, but that to come Shall all be done by th' rule.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 3)
Good night, dear lady.-- Good night, sir.  Goodnight.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 4)
Now, sirrah, you do wish yourself in Egypt?  Would had never come from thence, nor you thither.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 5)
If you can, your reason?  see it in my motion, have it not in my tongue.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 6)
But yet hie you to Egypt again.   Say to me, whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 7)
Caesar's. Therefore, Antony, stay not by his side.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 8)
Thy daemon--that thy spirit which keeps thee--is Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable, Where Caesar's is not.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 9)
But near him, thy angel Becomes afeard, as being o'erpowered.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 10)
Therefore Make space enough between you.  Speak this no more.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 11)
To none but thee; no more but when to thee. If thou dost play with him at any game, Thou art sure to lose; and of that natural luck He beats thee 'gainst the odds.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 12)
Thy luster thickens When he shines by. say again, thy spirit Is all afraid to govern thee near him; But he away, 'tis noble.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 13)
Get thee gone. Say to Ventidius would speak with him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 14)
He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap, He hath spoken true.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 15)
The very dice obey him, And in our sports my better cunning faints Under his chance.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 16)
If we draw lots, he speeds; His cocks do win the battle still of mine When it is all to naught, and his quails ever Beat mine, inhooped, at odds.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 17)
will to Egypt. And though make this marriage for my peace, th' East my pleasure lies.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 18)
come, Ventidius. You must to Parthia; your commission's ready.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 2, Scene 19)
Trouble yourselves no further. Pray you hasten Your generals after.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 0)
Sir, Mark Antony Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 1)
Till shall see you in your soldiers' dress, Which will become you both, farewell.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 2)
We shall, As conceive the journey, be at the Mount Before you, Lepidus.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 3)
Your way is shorter; My purposes do draw me much about.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 4)
You'll win two days upon me.  Sir, good success.  Farewell.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 3, Scene 5)
2        Give me some music--music, moody food Of us that trade in love.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 0)
The music, ho!      Let it alone. Let's to billiards.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 1)
Come, Charmian.   My arm is sore. Best play with Mardian.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 2)
As well a woman with an eunuch played As with a woman.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 3)
--Come, you'll play with me, sir?  As well as can, madam.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 4)
And when good will is showed, though 't come too short, The actor may plead pardon.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 5)
I'll none now. Give me mine angle; we'll to th' river.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 6)
There, My music playing far off, will betray Tawny-finned fishes.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 7)
My bended hook shall pierce Their slimy jaws, and as draw them up I'll think them every one an Antony And say "Aha!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 8)
You're caught."  'Twas merry when You wagered on your angling; when your diver Did hang a salt fish on his hook, which he With fervency drew up.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 9)
That time?--O, times!-- laughed him out of patience; and that night laughed him into patience; and next morn, Ere the ninth hour, drunk him to his bed, Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst wore his sword Philippan.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 10)
from Italy! Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears, That long time have been barren.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 11)
Madam, madam--   Antonio's dead! If thou say so, villain, Thou kill'st thy mistress.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 12)
But well and free, If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here My bluest veins to kiss, a hand that kings Have lipped and trembled kissing.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 13)
First, madam, he is well.   Why, there's more gold.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 14)
But sirrah, mark, we use To say the dead are well.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 15)
Bring it to that, The gold give thee will melt and pour Down thy ill-uttering throat.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 16)
Good madam, hear me.  Well, go to, will. But there's no goodness in thy face--if Antony Be free and healthful, so tart a favor To trumpet such good tidings!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 17)
If not well, Thou shouldst come like a Fury crowned with snakes, Not like a formal man.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 18)
Will 't please you hear me?   have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well, Or friends with Caesar or not captive to him, I'll set thee in a shower of gold and hail Rich pearls upon thee.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 19)
Madam, he's well.  Well said.   And friends with Caesar.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 20)
Th' art an honest man.   Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 21)
Make thee a fortune from me.  But yet, madam--   do not like "But yet.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 22)
" It does allay The good precedence. Fie upon "But yet.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 23)
" "But yet" is as a jailer to bring forth Some monstrous malefactor.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 24)
Prithee, friend, Pour out the pack of matter to mine ear, The good and bad together: he's friends with Caesar, In state of health, thou say'st, and, thou say'st, free.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 25)
Free, madam, no. made no such report. He's bound unto Octavia.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 26)
For what good turn?   For the best turn i' th' bed.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 27)
am pale, Charmian.   Madam, he's married to Octavia.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 28)
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!   Good madam, patience!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 29)
What say you? Hence, horrible villain, or I'll spurn thine eyes Like balls before me!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 30)
I'll unhair thy head!  Thou shalt be whipped with wire and stewed in brine, Smarting in ling'ring pickle.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 31)
Gracious madam, that do bring the news made not the match.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 32)
Say 'tis not so, a province will give thee And make thy fortunes proud.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 33)
The blow thou hadst Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage, And will boot thee with what gift beside Thy modesty can beg.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 34)
He's married, madam.   Rogue, thou hast lived too long.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 35)
Nay then, I'll run. What mean you, madam? have made no fault.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 36)
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself. The man is innocent.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 37)
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt. Melt Egypt into Nile, and kindly creatures Turn all to serpents!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 38)
Call the slave again. Though am mad, will not bite him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 39)
Call!   He is afeard to come.  will not hurt him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 40)
These hands do lack nobility that they strike meaner than myself, since myself Have given myself the cause.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 41)
Come hither, sir. Though it be honest, it is never good To bring bad news.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 42)
Give to a gracious message An host of tongues, but let ill tidings tell Themselves when they be felt.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 43)
have done my duty.  Is he married? cannot hate thee worser than do If thou again say "yes.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 44)
"  He's married, madam.   The gods confound thee! Dost thou hold there still?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 45)
Should lie, madam?  would thou didst, So half my Egypt were submerged and made cistern for scaled snakes!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 46)
Go, get thee hence. Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me Thou wouldst appear most ugly.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 47)
He is married?   crave your Highness' pardon.  He is married?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 48)
Take no offense that would not offend you. To punish me for what you make me do Seems much unequal.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 49)
He's married to Octavia.   that his fault should make a knave of thee That art not what th' art sure of!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 50)
Get thee hence. The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome Are all too dear for me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 51)
Lie they upon thy hand, And be undone by 'em!  Good your Highness, patience.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 52)
In praising Antony, have dispraised Caesar.  Many times, madam.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 53)
am paid for 't now. Lead me from hence; faint. Iras, Charmian!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 54)
'Tis no matter.-- Go to the fellow, good Alexas. Bid him Report the feature of Octavia, her years, Her inclination; let him not leave out The color of her hair.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 55)
Bring me word quickly.  Let him forever go--let him not, Charmian.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 56)
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon, The other way 's a Mars.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 57)
Bid you Alexas Bring me word how tall she is.--Pity me, Charmian, But do not speak to me.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 4, Scene 58)
with Drum and Trumpet; at another Caesar, Lepidus, Antony, Enobarbus, Maecenas, and Agrippa,     Your hostages have, so have you mine, And we shall talk before we fight.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 0)
Most meet That first we come to words, and therefore have we Our written purposes before us sent, Which if thou hast considered, let us know If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword And carry back to Sicily much tall youth That else must perish here.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 1)
To you all three, The senators alone of this great world, Chief factors for the gods: do not know Wherefore my father should revengers want, Having a son and friends, since Julius Caesar, Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted, There saw you laboring for him.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 2)
What was 't That moved pale Cassius to conspire? And what Made the all-honored, honest, Roman Brutus, With the armed rest, courtiers of beauteous freedom, To drench the Capitol, but that they would Have one man but a man?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 3)
And that is it Hath made me rig my navy, at whose burden The angered ocean foams, with which meant To scourge th' ingratitude that despiteful Rome Cast on my noble father.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 4)
Take your time.   Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 5)
We'll speak with thee at sea. At land thou know'st How much we do o'ercount thee.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 6)
At land indeed Thou dost o'ercount me of my father's house; But since the cuckoo builds not for himself, Remain in 't as thou mayst.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 7)
Be pleased to tell us-- For this is from the present--how you take The offers we have sent you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 8)
There's the point.   Which do not be entreated to, but weigh What it is worth embraced.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 9)
And what may follow To try a larger fortune.  You have made me offer Of Sicily, Sardinia; and must Rid all the sea of pirates; then to send Measures of wheat to Rome.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 10)
This 'greed upon, To part with unhacked edges and bear back Our targes undinted.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 11)
That's our offer.  Know then came before you here a man prepared To take this offer.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 12)
But Mark Antony Put me to some impatience.--Though lose The praise of it by telling, you must know When Caesar and your brother were at blows, Your mother came to Sicily and did find Her welcome friendly.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 13)
have heard it, Pompey, And am well studied for a liberal thanks, Which do owe you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 14)
Let me have your hand.  did not think, sir, to have met you here.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 15)
The beds i' th' East are soft; and thanks to you, That called me timelier than my purpose hither, For have gained by 't.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 16)
Since saw you last, There's a change upon you.  Well, know not What counts harsh Fortune casts upon my face, But in my bosom shall she never come To make my heart her vassal.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 17)
Well met here.   hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 18)
crave our composition may be written And sealed between us.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 19)
That's the next to do.   We'll feast each other ere we part, and let's Draw lots who shall begin.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 20)
That will Pompey.   No, Antony, take the lot. But, first or last, Your fine Egyptian cookery shall have The fame.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 21)
have heard that Julius Caesar Grew fat with feasting there.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 22)
You have heard much.  have fair meanings, sir.  And fair words to them.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 23)
Then so much have heard. And have heard Apollodorus carried--   No more of that.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 24)
He did so.  What, pray you?   certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 25)
know thee now. How far'st thou, soldier?  Well, And well am like to do, for perceive Four feasts are toward.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 26)
Let me shake thy hand. never hated thee. have seen thee fight When have envied thy behavior.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 27)
Sir, never loved you much, but ha' praised you When you have well deserved ten times as much As have said you did.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 28)
Enjoy thy plainness; It nothing ill becomes thee.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 29)
-- Aboard my galley invite you all. Will you lead, lords?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 30)
Show 's the way, sir.  Come.   Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have made this treaty.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 31)
--You and have known, sir.  At sea, think.  We have, sir.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 32)
You have done well by water.  And you by land.  will praise any man that will praise me, though it cannot be denied what have done by land.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 33)
Nor what have done by water.  Yes, something you can deny for your own safety: you have been a great thief by sea.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 34)
And you by land.  There deny my land service. But give me your hand, Menas.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 35)
If our eyes had authority, here they might take two thieves kissing.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 36)
All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 37)
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 38)
No slander. They steal hearts.  We came hither to fight with you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 39)
For my part, am sorry it is turned to a drinking.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 40)
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.  If he do, sure he cannot weep 't back again.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 41)
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony here.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 42)
Pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?  Caesar's sister is called Octavia.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 43)
True, sir. She was the wife of Caius Marcellus.  But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 44)
Pray you, sir?  'Tis true.  Then is Caesar and he forever knit together.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 45)
If were bound to divine of this unity, would not prophesy so.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 46)
think the policy of that purpose made more in the marriage than the love of the parties.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 47)
think so, too. But you shall find the band that seems to tie their friendship together will be the very strangler of their amity.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 48)
Octavia is of a holy, cold, and still conversation.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 49)
Who would not have his wife so?  Not he that himself is not so, which is Mark Antony.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 50)
He will to his Egyptian dish again. Then shall the sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar, and, as said before, that which is the strength of their amity shall prove the immediate author of their variance.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 51)
Antony will use his affection where it is. He married but his occasion here.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 52)
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard? have a health for you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 53)
shall take it, sir. We have used our throats in Egypt.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 5, Scene 54)
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are ill-rooted already.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 0)
The least wind i' th' world will blow them down.  Lepidus is high-colored.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 1)
They have made him drink alms-drink.  As they pinch one another by the disposition, he cries out "No more," reconciles them to his entreaty and himself to th' drink.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 2)
But it raises the greater war between him and his discretion.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 3)
Why, this it is to have a name in great men's fellowship.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 4)
had as lief have a reed that will do me no service as a partisan could not heave.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 5)
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen to move in 't, are the holes where eyes should be, which pitifully disaster the cheeks.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 6)
sennet sounded. Enter Caesar, Antony, Pompey, Lepidus, Agrippa, Maecenas, Enobarbus, Menas, with     Thus do they, sir: they take the flow o' th' Nile By certain scales i' th' Pyramid; they know By th' height, the lowness, or the mean if dearth Or foison follow.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 7)
The higher Nilus swells, The more it promises. As it ebbs, the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain, And shortly comes to harvest.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 8)
You've strange serpents there?  Ay, Lepidus.  Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the operation of your sun; so is your crocodile.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 9)
They are so.   Sit, and some wine. health to Lepidus!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 10)
am not so well as should be, but I'll ne'er out.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 11)
Not till you have slept. fear me you'll be in till then.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 12)
Nay, certainly, have heard the Ptolemies' pyramises are very goodly things.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 13)
Without contradiction have heard that.   Pompey, a word.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 14)
Say in mine ear what is 't.   Forsake thy seat, do beseech thee, captain, And hear me speak a word.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 15)
Forbear me till anon.--This wine for Lepidus!  What manner o' thing is your crocodile?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 16)
It is shaped, sir, like itself, and it is as broad as it hath breadth.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 17)
It is just so high as it is, and moves with it own organs.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 18)
It lives by that which nourisheth it, and the elements once out of it, it transmigrates.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 19)
What color is it of?  Of it own color too.  'Tis a strange serpent.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 20)
'Tis so, and the tears of it are wet.  Will this description satisfy him?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 21)
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a very epicure.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 22)
Go hang, sir, hang! Tell me of that? Away! Do as bid you.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 23)
--Where's this cup called for?   If for the sake of merit thou wilt hear me, Rise from thy stool.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 24)
think th' art mad!  The matter?   have ever held my cap off to thy fortunes.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 25)
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 26)
-- Be jolly, lords.  These quicksands, Lepidus, Keep off them, for you sink.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 27)
Wilt thou be lord of all the world?  What sayst thou?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 28)
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 29)
How should that be?  But entertain it, And though thou think me poor, am the man Will give thee all the world.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 30)
Hast thou drunk well?   No, Pompey, have kept me from the cup.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 31)
Thou art, if thou dar'st be, the earthly Jove. Whate'er the ocean pales or sky inclips Is thine, if thou wilt ha 't.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 32)
Show me which way.   These three world-sharers, these competitors, Are in thy vessel.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 33)
Let me cut the cable, And when we are put off, fall to their throats.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 34)
All there is thine.  Ah, this thou shouldst have done And not have spoke on 't!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 35)
In me 'tis villainy; In thee 't had been good service.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 36)
Thou must know 'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honor; Mine honor, it.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 37)
Repent that e'er thy tongue Hath so betrayed thine act.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 38)
Being done unknown, should have found it afterwards well done, But must condemn it now.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 39)
Desist and drink.  For this I'll never follow thy palled fortunes more.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 40)
Who seeks and will not take when once 'tis offered Shall never find it more.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 41)
This health to Lepidus!   Bear him ashore.--I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 42)
Here's to thee, Menas.  Enobarbus, welcome.  Fill till the cup be hid.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 43)
There's a strong fellow, Menas.  Why?  He bears The third part of the world, man.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 44)
Seest not?   The third part, then, is drunk. Would it were all, That it might go on wheels.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 45)
Drink thou. Increase the reels.  Come.   This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 46)
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho! Here's to Caesar.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 47)
could well forbear 't. It's monstrous labor when wash my brain And it grows fouler.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 48)
Be a child o' th' time.  Possess it, I'll make answer.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 49)
But had rather fast from all, four days, Than drink so much in one.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 50)
Ha, my brave emperor, Shall we dance now the Egyptian bacchanals And celebrate our drink?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 51)
Let's ha 't, good soldier.  Come, let's all take hands Till that the conquering wine hath steeped our sense In soft and delicate Lethe.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 52)
All take hands. Make battery to our ears with the loud music, The while I'll place you; then the boy shall sing.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 53)
The holding every man shall beat as loud As his strong sides can volley.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 54)
The Song.  Come, thou monarch of the vine, Plumpy Bacchus, with pink eyne.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 55)
In thy vats our cares be drowned. With thy grapes our hairs be crowned.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 56)
Cup us till the world go round, Cup us till the world go round.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 57)
What would you more?--Pompey, goodnight.-- Good brother, Let me request you off.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 58)
Our graver business Frowns at this levity.--Gentle lords, let's part.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 59)
You see we have burnt our cheeks. Strong Enobarb Is weaker than the wine, and mine own tongue Splits what it speaks.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 60)
The wild disguise hath almost Anticked us all. What needs more words?(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 61)
Goodnight. Good Antony, your hand.  I'll try you on the shore.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 62)
And shall, sir. Give 's your hand.   Antony, you have my father's house.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 63)
But what? We are friends! Come down into the boat.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 64)
Take heed you fall not.  Menas, I'll not on shore.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 65)
No, to my cabin. These drums, these trumpets, flutes!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 66)
What! Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell To these great fellows.(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 67)
Sound and be hanged. Sound out!  Hoo, says 'a! There's my cap!(Antony and Cleopatra, Act 6, Scene 68)
young Lords, taking leave for the Florentine war;     Farewell, young lords.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 0)
These warlike principles Do not throw from you.--And you, my lords, farewell.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 1)
Share the advice betwixt you. If both gain all, The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received And is enough for both.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 2)
'Tis our hope, sir, After well-entered soldiers, to return And find your Grace in health.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 3)
No, no, it cannot be. And yet my heart Will not confess he owes the malady That doth my life besiege.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 4)
Farewell, young lords. Whether live or die, be you the sons Of worthy Frenchmen.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 5)
Let higher Italy-- Those bated that inherit but the fall Of the last monarchy--see that you come Not to woo honor but to wed it.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 6)
When The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek, That fame may cry you loud.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 7)
say farewell.   Health at your bidding serve your Majesty!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 8)
Those girls of Italy, take heed of them. They say our French lack language to deny If they demand.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 9)
Beware of being captives Before you serve.  Our hearts receive your warnings.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 10)
Farewell.--Come hither to me.     my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 11)
'Tis not his fault, the spark.  'tis brave wars.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 12)
Most admirable. have seen those wars.   am commanded here and kept a coil With "Too young," and "The next year," and "'Tis too early.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 13)
"   An thy mind stand to 't, boy, steal away bravely.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 14)
shall stay here the forehorse to a smock, Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry Till honor be bought up, and no sword worn But one to dance with.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 15)
By heaven, I'll steal away!   There's honor in the theft.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 16)
Commit it, count.   am your accessory. And so, farewell.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 17)
grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 18)
Farewell, captain.  Sweet Monsieur Parolles.  Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 19)
Good sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals. You shall find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain Spurio with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here on his sinister cheek.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 20)
It was this very sword entrenched it. Say to him live, and observe his reports for me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 21)
We shall, noble captain.  Mars dote on you for his novices.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 22)
What will you do?  Stay the King.  Use a more spacious ceremony to the noble lords.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 23)
You have restrained yourself within the list of too cold an adieu.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 24)
Be more expressive to them, for they wear themselves in the cap of the time; there do muster true gait; eat, speak, and move under the influence of the most received star, and, though the devil lead the measure, such are to be followed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 25)
After them, and take a more dilated farewell.  And will do so.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 26)
Worthy fellows, and like to prove most sinewy swordmen.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 27)
Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.  I'll fee thee to stand up.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 28)
Then here's a man stands that has brought his pardon.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 29)
would you had kneeled, my lord, to ask me mercy, And that at my bidding you could so stand up.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 30)
would had, so had broke thy pate And asked thee mercy for 't.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 31)
Good faith, across. But, my good lord, 'tis thus: will you be cured Of your infirmity?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 32)
No.  will you eat No grapes, my royal fox? Yes, but you will My noble grapes, an if my royal fox Could reach them.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 33)
have seen a medicine That's able to breathe life into a stone, Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary With sprightly fire and motion, whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pippen, nay, To give great Charlemagne a pen in 's hand And write to her a love line.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 34)
What "her" is this?   Why, Doctor She. My lord, there's one arrived, If you will see her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 35)
Now, by my faith and honor, If seriously may convey my thoughts In this my light deliverance, have spoke With one that in her sex, her years, profession, Wisdom, and constancy hath amazed me more Than dare blame my weakness.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 36)
Will you see her-- For that is her demand--and know her business?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 37)
That done, laugh well at me.  Now, good Lafew, Bring in the admiration, that we with thee May spend our wonder too, or take off thine By wond'ring how thou took'st it.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 38)
Nay, I'll fit you, And not be all day neither.    Thus he his special nothing ever prologues.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 39)
Nay, come your ways.  This haste hath wings indeed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 40)
Nay, come your ways. This is his Majesty. Say your mind to him.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 41)
traitor you do look like, but such traitors His Majesty seldom fears.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 42)
am Cressid's uncle That dare leave two together. Fare you well.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 43)
Now, fair one, does your business follow us?  Ay, my good lord, Gerard de Narbon was my father, In what he did profess well found.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 44)
knew him.   The rather will spare my praises towards him.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 45)
Knowing him is enough. On 's bed of death Many receipts he gave me, chiefly one Which, as the dearest issue of his practice, And of his old experience th' only darling, He bade me store up as a triple eye, Safer than mine own two, more dear.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 46)
have so, And hearing your high Majesty is touched With that malignant cause wherein the honor Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power, come to tender it and my appliance With all bound humbleness.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 47)
We thank you, maiden, But may not be so credulous of cure, When our most learned doctors leave us and The congregated college have concluded That laboring art can never ransom nature From her inaidible estate.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 48)
say we must not So stain our judgment or corrupt our hope To prostitute our past-cure malady To empirics, or to dissever so Our great self and our credit to esteem senseless help when help past sense we deem.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 49)
My duty, then, shall pay me for my pains. will no more enforce mine office on you, Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts modest one to bear me back again.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 50)
cannot give thee less, to be called grateful. Thou thought'st to help me, and such thanks give As one near death to those that wish him live.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 51)
But what at full know, thou know'st no part, knowing all my peril, thou no art.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 52)
What can do can do no hurt to try Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 53)
He that of greatest works is finisher Oft does them by the weakest minister.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 54)
So holy writ in babes hath judgment shown When judges have been babes.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 55)
Great floods have flown From simple sources, and great seas have dried When miracles have by the great'st been denied.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 56)
Oft expectation fails, and most oft there Where most it promises, and oft it hits Where hope is coldest and despair most shifts.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 57)
must not hear thee. Fare thee well, kind maid. Thy pains, not used, must by thyself be paid.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 58)
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.   Inspired merit so by breath is barred.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 59)
It is not so with Him that all things knows As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows; But most it is presumption in us when The help of heaven we count the act of men.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 60)
Dear sir, to my endeavors give consent. Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 61)
am not an impostor that proclaim Myself against the level of mine aim, But know think and think know most sure My art is not past power nor you past cure.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 62)
Art thou so confident? Within what space Hop'st thou my cure?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 63)
The greatest grace lending grace, Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring; Ere twice in murk and occidental damp Moist Hesperus hath quenched her sleepy lamp; Or four and twenty times the pilot's glass Hath told the thievish minutes, how they pass, What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly, Health shall live free, and sickness freely die.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 64)
Upon thy certainty and confidence What dar'st thou venture?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 65)
Tax of impudence, strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame; Traduced by odious ballads, my maiden's name Seared otherwise; nay, worse of worst, extended With vilest torture let my life be ended.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 66)
Methinks in thee some blessed spirit doth speak His powerful sound within an organ weak, And what impossibility would slay In common sense, sense saves another way.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 67)
Thy life is dear, for all that life can rate Worth name of life in thee hath estimate: Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all That happiness and prime can happy call.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 68)
Thou this to hazard needs must intimate Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 69)
Sweet practicer, thy physic will try, That ministers thine own death if die.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 70)
If break time or flinch in property Of what spoke, unpitied let me die, And well deserved.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 71)
Not helping, death's my fee. But if help, what do you promise me?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 72)
Make thy demand.  But will you make it even?   Ay, by my scepter and my hopes of heaven.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 73)
Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand What husband in thy power will command.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 74)
Exempted be from me the arrogance To choose from forth the royal blood of France, My low and humble name to propagate With any branch or image of thy state; But such a one, thy vassal, whom know Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 75)
Here is my hand. The premises observed, Thy will by my performance shall be served.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 76)
So make the choice of thy own time, for Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 77)
More should question thee, and more must, Though more to know could not be more to trust: From whence thou cam'st, how tended on; but rest Unquestioned welcome and undoubted blessed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 78)
-- Give me some help here, ho!--If thou proceed As high as word, my deed shall match thy deed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 0, Scene 79)
Come on, sir. shall now put you to the height of your breeding.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 0)
will show myself highly fed and lowly taught. know my business is but to the court.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 1)
"To the court"? Why, what place make you special when you put off that with such contempt?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 2)
"But to the court"?  Truly, madam, if God have lent a man any manners, he may easily put it off at court.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 3)
He that cannot make a leg, put off 's cap, kiss his hand, and say nothing, has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the court.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 4)
But, for me, have an answer will serve all men.  Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all questions.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 5)
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks: the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn-buttock, or any buttock.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 6)
Will your answer serve fit to all questions?  As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney, as your French crown for your taffety punk, as Tib's rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove Tuesday, a morris for May Day, as the nail to his hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding quean to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 7)
Have you, say, an answer of such fitness for all questions?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 8)
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it will fit any question.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 9)
It must be an answer of most monstrous size that must fit all demands.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 10)
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned should speak truth of it.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 11)
Here it is, and all that belongs to 't. Ask me if am a courtier; it shall do you no harm to learn.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 12)
To be young again, if we could! will be a fool in question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 13)
pray you, sir, are you a courtier?  Lord, sir!--There's a simple putting off.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 14)
More, more, a hundred of them.  Sir, am a poor friend of yours that loves you.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 15)
Lord, sir!--Thick, thick. Spare not me.  think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 16)
Lord, sir!--Nay, put me to 't, warrant you.  You were lately whipped, sir, as think.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 17)
Lord, sir!--Spare not me.  Do you cry Lord, sir!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 18)
" at your whipping, and "spare not me"? Indeed your Lord, sir!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 19)
" is very sequent to your whipping. You would answer very well to a whipping if you were but bound to 't.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 20)
ne'er had worse luck in my life in my Lord, sir!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 21)
" see things may serve long but not serve ever.  play the noble huswife with the time to entertain it so merrily with a fool.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 22)
Lord, sir!--Why, there 't serves well again.   An end, sir.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 23)
To your business. Give Helen this, And urge her to a present answer back.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 24)
Commend me to my kinsmen and my son. This is not much.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 25)
Not much commendation to them?   Not much employment for you.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 26)
You understand me.  Most fruitfully. am there before my legs.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 1, Scene 27)
2       They say miracles are past, and we have our philosophical persons to make modern and familiar things supernatural and causeless.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 0)
Hence is it that we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves into seeming knowledge when we should submit ourselves to an unknown fear.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 1)
Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath shot out in our latter times.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 2)
And so 'tis.  To be relinquished of the artists--  So say, both of Galen and Paracelsus.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 3)
Of all the learned and authentic fellows--  Right, so say.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 4)
That gave him out incurable--  Why, there 'tis. So say too.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 5)
Not to be helped.  Right, as 'twere a man assured of a--  Uncertain life and sure death.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 6)
Just. You say well. So would have said.  may truly say it is a novelty to the world.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 7)
It is indeed. If you will have it in showing, you shall read it in what-do-you-call there.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 8)
showing of a heavenly effect in an earthly actor.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 9)
That's it. would have said the very same.  Why, your dolphin is not lustier.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 10)
'Fore me, speak in respect--  Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange; that is the brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most facinorous spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--  Very hand of heaven.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 11)
Ay, so say.  In a most weak--  And debile minister.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 12)
Great power, great transcendence, which should indeed give us a further use to be made than alone the recov'ry of the King, as to be--  Generally thankful.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 13)
would have said it. You say well. Here comes the King.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 14)
Lustig, as the Dutchman says. I'll like a maid the better whilst have a tooth in my head.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 15)
Why, he's able to lead her a coranto.  Mort du vinaigre!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 16)
Is not this Helen?  'Fore God, think so.   Go, call before me all the lords in court.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 17)
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side, And with this healthful hand, whose banished sense Thou hast repealed, a second time receive The confirmation of my promised gift, Which but attends thy naming.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 18)
Fair maid, send forth thine eye. This youthful parcel Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing, O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice have to use.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 19)
Thy frank election make. Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 20)
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress Fall when Love please!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 21)
Marry, to each but one.   I'd give bay Curtal and his furniture My mouth no more were broken than these boys' And writ as little beard.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 22)
Peruse them well. Not one of those but had a noble father.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 23)
Gentlemen, Heaven hath through me restored the King to health.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 24)
We understand it and thank heaven for you.   am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest That protest simply am a maid.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 25)
-- Please it your Majesty, have done already. The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me: "We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused, Let the white death sit on thy cheek forever; We'll ne'er come there again.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 26)
"  Make choice and see. Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 27)
Now, Dian, from thy altar do fly, And to imperial Love, that god most high, Do my sighs stream.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 28)
Sir, will you hear my suit?   And grant it.  Thanks, sir.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 29)
All the rest is mute.  had rather be in this choice than throw ambs-ace for my life.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 30)
The honor, sir, that flames in your fair eyes Before speak too threat'ningly replies.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 31)
Love make your fortunes twenty times above Her that so wishes, and her humble love.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 32)
No better, if you please.  My wish receive, Which great Love grant, and so take my leave.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 33)
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine, I'd have them whipped, or would send them to th' Turk to make eunuchs of.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 34)
Be not afraid that your hand should take. I'll never do you wrong, for your own sake.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 35)
Blessing upon your vows, and in your bed Find fairer fortune if you ever wed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 36)
These boys are boys of ice; they'll none have her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 37)
Sure they are bastards to the English; the French ne'er got 'em.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 38)
You are too young, too happy, and too good To make yourself a son out of my blood.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 39)
Fair one, think not so.  There's one grape yet. am sure thy father drunk wine.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 40)
But if thou be'st not an ass, am a youth of fourteen; have known thee already.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 41)
dare not say take you, but give Me and my service ever whilst live Into your guiding power.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 42)
--This is the man.   Why then, young Bertram, take her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 43)
She's thy wife.   My wife, my liege? shall beseech your Highness In such a business give me leave to use The help of mine own eyes.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 44)
Know'st thou not, Bertram, What she has done for me?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 45)
Yes, my good lord, But never hope to know why should marry her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 46)
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 47)
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down Must answer for your raising?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 48)
know her well; She had her breeding at my father's charge.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 49)
poor physician's daughter my wife? Disdain Rather corrupt me ever!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 50)
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which can build up.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 51)
Strange is it that our bloods, Of color, weight, and heat, poured all together, Would quite confound distinction, yet stands off In differences so mighty.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 52)
If she be All that is virtuous, save what thou dislik'st-- poor physician's daughter"--thou dislik'st Of virtue for the name.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 53)
But do not so. From lowest place whence virtuous things proceed, The place is dignified by th' doer's deed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 54)
Where great additions swell 's, and virtue none, It is a dropsied honor.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 55)
Good alone Is good, without a name; vileness is so; The property by what it is should go, Not by the title.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 56)
She is young, wise, fair; In these to nature she's immediate heir, And these breed honor.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 57)
That is honor's scorn Which challenges itself as honor's born And is not like the sire.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 58)
Honors thrive When rather from our acts we them derive Than our foregoers.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 59)
The mere word's a slave Debauched on every tomb, on every grave lying trophy, and as oft is dumb Where dust and damned oblivion is the tomb Of honored bones indeed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 60)
What should be said? If thou canst like this creature as a maid, can create the rest.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 61)
Virtue and she Is her own dower, honor and wealth from me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 62)
cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.   Thou wrong'st thyself if thou shouldst strive to choose.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 63)
That you are well restored, my lord, I'm glad. Let the rest go.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 64)
My honor's at the stake, which to defeat must produce my power.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 65)
--Here, take her hand, Proud, scornful boy, unworthy this good gift, That dost in vile misprision shackle up My love and her desert; that canst not dream We, poising us in her defective scale, Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know It is in us to plant thine honor where We please to have it grow.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 66)
Check thy contempt; Obey our will, which travails in thy good.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 67)
Believe not thy disdain, but presently Do thine own fortunes that obedient right Which both thy duty owes and our power claims, Or will throw thee from my care forever Into the staggers and the careless lapse Of youth and ignorance, both my revenge and hate Loosing upon thee in the name of justice Without all terms of pity.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 68)
Speak. Thine answer.   Pardon, my gracious lord, for submit My fancy to your eyes.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 69)
When consider What great creation and what dole of honor Flies where you bid it, find that she which late Was in my nobler thoughts most base is now The praised of the King, who, so ennobled, Is as 'twere born so.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 70)
Take her by the hand, And tell her she is thine, to whom promise counterpoise, if not to thy estate, balance more replete.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 71)
take her hand.   Good fortune and the favor of the King Smile upon this contract, whose ceremony Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief And be performed tonight.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 72)
The solemn feast Shall more attend upon the coming space, Expecting absent friends.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 73)
As thou lov'st her Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 74)
Do you hear, monsieur? word with you.  Your pleasure, sir.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 75)
Your lord and master did well to make his recantation.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 76)
"Recantation"? My "lord"? My "master"?  Ay. Is it not a language speak?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 77)
most harsh one, and not to be understood without bloody succeeding.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 78)
My "master"?  Are you companion to the Count Rossillion?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 79)
To any count, to all counts, to what is man.  To what is count's man.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 80)
Count's master is of another style.  You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too old.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 81)
must tell thee, sirrah, write man, to which title age cannot bring thee.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 82)
What dare too well do, dare not do.  did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy travel; it might pass.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 83)
Yet the scarves and the bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from believing thee a vessel of too great a burden.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 84)
have now found thee. When lose thee again, care not.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 85)
Yet art thou good for nothing but taking up, and that thou 'rt scarce worth.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 86)
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee--  Do not plunge thyself too far in anger lest thou hasten thy trial, which if--Lord have mercy on thee for a hen!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 87)
So, my good window of lattice, fare thee well; thy casement need not open, for look through thee.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 88)
Give me thy hand.  My lord, you give me most egregious indignity.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 89)
Ay, with all my heart, and thou art worthy of it.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 90)
have not, my lord, deserved it.  Yes, good faith, ev'ry dram of it, and will not bate thee a scruple.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 91)
Well, shall be wiser.  Ev'n as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at a smack o' th' contrary.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 92)
If ever thou be'st bound in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is to be proud of thy bondage.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 93)
have a desire to hold my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge, that may say in the default "He is a man know.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 94)
"  My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 95)
would it were hell pains for thy sake, and my poor doing eternal; for doing am past, as will by thee in what motion age will give me leave.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 96)
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 97)
Scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, must be patient; there is no fettering of authority.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 98)
I'll beat him, by my life, if can meet him with any convenience, an he were double and double a lord.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 99)
I'll have no more pity of his age than would have of--I'll beat him, an if could but meet him again.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 100)
Sirrah, your lord and master's married. There's news for you: you have a new mistress.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 101)
most unfeignedly beseech your Lordship to make some reservation of your wrongs.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 102)
He is my good lord; whom serve above is my master.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 103)
Who? God?  Ay, sir.  The devil it is that's thy master.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 104)
Why dost thou garter up thy arms o' this fashion?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 105)
Dost make hose of thy sleeves? Do other servants so?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 106)
Thou wert best set thy lower part where thy nose stands.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 107)
By mine honor, if were but two hours younger, I'd beat thee.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 108)
Methink'st thou art a general offense, and every man should beat thee.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 109)
think thou wast created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 110)
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.  Go to, sir.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 111)
You were beaten in Italy for picking a kernel out of a pomegranate.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 112)
You are a vagabond, and no true traveler. You are more saucy with lords and honorable personages than the commission of your birth and virtue gives you heraldry.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 113)
You are not worth another word; else I'd call you knave.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 114)
leave you.  Good, very good! It is so, then. Good, very good.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 115)
Let it be concealed awhile.      Undone, and forfeited to cares forever!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 116)
What's the matter, sweetheart?   Although before the solemn priest have sworn, will not bed her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 117)
What, what, sweetheart?   my Parolles, they have married me!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 118)
I'll to the Tuscan wars and never bed her.  France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits the tread of a man's foot.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 119)
To th' wars!  There's letters from my mother. What th' import is know not yet.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 120)
Ay, that would be known. To th' wars, my boy, to th' wars!(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 121)
He wears his honor in a box unseen That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home, Spending his manly marrow in her arms Which should sustain the bound and high curvet Of Mars's fiery steed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 122)
To other regions! France is a stable, we that dwell in 't jades.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 123)
Therefore, to th' war!   It shall be so. I'll send her to my house, Acquaint my mother with my hate to her And wherefore am fled, write to the King That which durst not speak.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 124)
His present gift Shall furnish me to those Italian fields Where noble fellows strike.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 125)
Wars is no strife To the dark house and the detested wife.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 126)
Will this capriccio hold in thee? Art sure?   Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 127)
I'll send her straight away. Tomorrow I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 128)
Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 129)
young man married is a man that's marred. Therefore away, and leave her bravely.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 130)
Go. The King has done you wrong, but hush, 'tis so.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 2, Scene 131)
My mother greets me kindly. Is she well?  She is not well, but yet she has her health.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 0)
She's very merry, but yet she is not well. But, thanks be given, she's very well and wants nothing i' th' world, but yet she is not well.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 1)
If she be very well, what does she ail that she's not very well?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 2)
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 3)
What two things?  One, that she's not in heaven, whither God send her quickly; the other, that she's in Earth, from whence God send her quickly.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 4)
Bless you, my fortunate lady.  hope, sir, have your good will to have mine own good fortunes.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 5)
You had my prayers to lead them on, and to keep them on have them still.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 6)
--O my knave, how does my old lady?  So that you had her wrinkles and her money, would she did as you say.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 7)
Why, say nothing.  Marry, you are the wiser man, for many a man's tongue shakes out his master's undoing.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 8)
To say nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have nothing is to be a great part of your title, which is within a very little of nothing.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 9)
Away. Thou 'rt a knave.  You should have said, sir, "Before a knave, thou 'rt a knave"; that's "Before me, thou 'rt a knave.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 10)
" This had been truth, sir.  Go to. Thou art a witty fool.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 11)
have found thee.  Did you find me in yourself, sir, or were you taught to find me?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 12)
...  The search, sir, was profitable, and much fool may you find in you, even to the world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 13)
good knave, i' faith, and well fed. Madam, my lord will go away tonight; very serious business calls on him.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 14)
The great prerogative and rite of love, Which as your due time claims, he does acknowledge But puts it off to a compelled restraint, Whose want and whose delay is strewed with sweets, Which they distill now in the curbed time To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy And pleasure drown the brim.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 15)
What's his will else?   That you will take your instant leave o' th' King And make this haste as your own good proceeding, Strengthened with what apology you think May make it probable need.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 16)
What more commands he?   That, having this obtained, you presently Attend his further pleasure.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 17)
In everything wait upon his will.  shall report it so.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 3, Scene 18)
But hope your Lordship thinks not him a soldier.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 0)
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.  You have it from his own deliverance.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 1)
And by other warranted testimony.  Then my dial goes not true.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 2)
took this lark for a bunting.  do assure you, my lord, he is very great in knowledge and accordingly valiant.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 3)
have then sinned against his experience and transgressed against his valor, and my state that way is dangerous since cannot yet find in my heart to repent.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 4)
Here he comes. pray you make us friends. will pursue the amity.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 5)
These things shall be done, sir.  Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 6)
Sir?  know him well. Ay, sir, he, sir, 's a good workman, a very good tailor.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 7)
Is she gone to the King?  She is.  Will she away tonight?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 8)
As you'll have her.   have writ my letters, casketed my treasure, Given order for our horses, and tonight, When should take possession of the bride, End ere do begin.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 9)
good traveler is something at the latter end of a dinner, but one that lies three thirds, and uses a known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should be once heard and thrice beaten.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 10)
-- God save you, captain.  Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 11)
know not how have deserved to run into my lord's displeasure.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 12)
You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs and all, like him that leapt into the custard; and out of it you'll run again rather than suffer question for your residence.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 13)
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.  And shall do so ever, though took him at 's prayers.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 14)
Fare you well, my lord, and believe this of me: there can be no kernel in this light nut.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 15)
The soul of this man is his clothes. Trust him not in matter of heavy consequence.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 16)
have kept of them tame and know their natures.--Farewell, monsieur.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 17)
have spoken better of you than you have or will to deserve at my hand, but we must do good against evil.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 18)
An idle lord, swear.  think not so.  Why, do you not know him?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 19)
Yes, do know him well, and common speech Gives him a worthy pass.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 20)
Here comes my clog.   have, sir, as was commanded from you, Spoke with the King and have procured his leave For present parting.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 21)
Only he desires Some private speech with you.  shall obey his will.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 22)
You must not marvel, Helen, at my course, Which holds not color with the time, nor does The ministration and required office On my particular.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 23)
Prepared was not For such a business; therefore am found So much unsettled.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 24)
This drives me to entreat you That presently you take your way for home, And rather muse than ask why entreat you; For my respects are better than they seem, And my appointments have in them a need Greater than shows itself at the first view To you that know them not.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 25)
This to my mother. 'Twill be two days ere shall see you, so leave you to your wisdom.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 26)
Sir, can nothing say But that am your most obedient servant--   Come, come, no more of that.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 27)
And ever shall With true observance seek to eke out that Wherein toward me my homely stars have failed To equal my great fortune.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 28)
Let that go. My haste is very great. Farewell. Hie home.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 29)
Pray, sir, your pardon.  Well, what would you say?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 30)
am not worthy of the wealth owe, Nor dare say 'tis mine--and yet it is-- But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal What law does vouch mine own.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 31)
What would you have?   Something, and scarce so much; nothing, indeed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 32)
would not tell you what would, my lord. Faith, yes: Strangers and foes do sunder and not kiss.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 33)
pray you stay not, but in haste to horse.   shall not break your bidding, good my lord.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 34)
-- Where are my other men?--Monsieur, farewell.    Go thou toward home, where will never come Whilst can shake my sword or hear the drum.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 4, Scene 35)
So that from point to point now have you heard The fundamental reasons of this war, Whose great decision hath much blood let forth And more thirsts after.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 0)
Holy seems the quarrel Upon your Grace's part, black and fearful On the opposer.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 1)
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France Would in so just a business shut his bosom Against our borrowing prayers.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 2)
Good my lord, The reasons of our state cannot yield But like a common and an outward man That the great figure of a council frames By self-unable motion; therefore dare not Say what think of it, since have found Myself in my incertain grounds to fail As often as guessed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 3)
Be it his pleasure.   But am sure the younger of our nation, That surfeit on their ease, will day by day Come here for physic.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 4)
Welcome shall they be, And all the honors that can fly from us Shall on them settle.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 5)
You know your places well. When better fall, for your avails they fell.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 23, Scene 6)
It hath happened all as would have had it, save that he comes not along with her.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 0)
By my troth, take my young lord to be a very melancholy man.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 1)
By what observance, pray you?  Why, he will look upon his boot and sing, mend the ruff and sing, ask questions and sing, pick his teeth and sing.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 2)
know a man that had this trick of melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 3)
Let me see what he writes and when he means to come.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 4)
have no mind to Isbel since was at court. Our old lings and our Isbels o' th' country are nothing like your old ling and your Isbels o' th' court.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 5)
The brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and begin to love as an old man loves money, with no stomach.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 6)
What have we here?  E'en that you have there.  have sent you a daughter-in-law.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 7)
She hath recovered the King and undone me. have wedded her, not bedded her, and sworn to make the "not" eternal.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 8)
You shall hear am run away. Know it before the report come.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 9)
If there be breadth enough in the world, will hold a long distance.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 10)
My duty to you. Your unfortunate son, Bertram. This is not well, rash and unbridled boy: To fly the favors of so good a king, To pluck his indignation on thy head By the misprizing of a maid too virtuous For the contempt of empire.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 11)
madam, yonder is heavy news within, between two soldiers and my young lady.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 12)
What is the matter?  Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some comfort.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 13)
Your son will not be killed so soon as thought he would.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 14)
Why should he be killed?  So say madam, if he run away, as hear he does.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 15)
The danger is in standing to 't; that's the loss of men, though it be the getting of children.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 16)
Here they come will tell you more. For my part, only hear your son was run away.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 17)
Save you, good madam.   Madam, my lord is gone, forever gone.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 18)
Do not say so.   Think upon patience, pray you.--Gentlemen, have felt so many quirks of joy and grief That the first face of neither on the start Can woman me unto 't.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 19)
Where is my son, pray you?   Madam, he's gone to serve the Duke of Florence.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 20)
We met him thitherward, for thence we came, And, after some dispatch in hand at court, Thither we bend again.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 21)
Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport. When thou canst get the ring upon my finger, which never shall come off, and show me a child begotten of thy body that am father to, then call me husband.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 22)
But in such a "then" write a "never." This is a dreadful sentence.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 23)
Brought you this letter, gentlemen?  Ay, madam, And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pains.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 24)
prithee, lady, have a better cheer. If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine, Thou robb'st me of a moiety.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 25)
He was my son, But do wash his name out of my blood, And thou art all my child.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 26)
--Towards Florence is he?  Ay, madam.  And to be a soldier?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 27)
Such is his noble purpose, and, believe 't, The Duke will lay upon him all the honor That good convenience claims.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 28)
Return you thither?   Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 29)
Till have no wife have nothing in France. 'Tis bitter.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 30)
Find you that there?  Ay, madam.   'Tis but the boldness of his hand, haply, Which his heart was not consenting to.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 31)
Nothing in France until he have no wife! There's nothing here that is too good for him But only she, and she deserves a lord That twenty such rude boys might tend upon And call her hourly mistress.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 32)
Who was with him?   servant only, and a gentleman Which have sometime known.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 33)
Parolles was it not?  Ay, my good lady, he.   very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 34)
My son corrupts a well-derived nature With his inducement.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 35)
Indeed, good lady, The fellow has a deal of that too much Which holds him much to have.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 36)
You're welcome, gentlemen. will entreat you when you see my son To tell him that his sword can never win The honor that he loses.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 37)
More I'll entreat you Written to bear along.  We serve you, madam, In that and all your worthiest affairs.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 38)
Not so, but as we change our courtesies. Will you draw near?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 39)
"Till have no wife have nothing in France." Nothing in France until he has no wife.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 40)
Thou shalt have none, Rossillion, none in France.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 41)
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord, is 't That chase thee from thy country and expose Those tender limbs of thine to the event Of the none-sparing war?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 42)
And is it That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark Of smoky muskets?(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 43)
you leaden messengers That ride upon the violent speed of fire, Fly with false aim; move the still-'pearing air That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 44)
Whoever shoots at him, set him there; Whoever charges on his forward breast, am the caitiff that do hold him to 't; And though kill him not, am the cause His death was so effected.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 45)
Better 'twere met the ravin lion when he roared With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere That all the miseries which nature owes Were mine at once.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 46)
No, come thou home, Rossillion, Whence honor but of danger wins a scar, As oft it loses all.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 47)
will be gone. My being here it is that holds thee hence.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 48)
Shall stay here to do 't? No, no, although The air of paradise did fan the house And angels officed all.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 49)
will be gone, That pitiful rumor may report my flight To consolate thine ear.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 50)
Come, night; end, day; For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.(All's Well That Ends Well, Act 24, Scene 51)
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile, Hath not old custom made this life more sweet Than that of painted pomp?(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 0)
Are not these woods More free from peril than the envious court?(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 1)
Here feel we not the penalty of Adam, The seasons' difference, as the icy fang And churlish chiding of the winter's wind, Which when it bites and blows upon my body Even till shrink with cold, smile and say "This is no flattery.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 2)
These are counselors That feelingly persuade me what am.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 3)
" Sweet are the uses of adversity, Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, Wears yet a precious jewel in his head.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 4)
And this our life, exempt from public haunt, Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones, and good in everything.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 5)
would not change it. Happy is your Grace, That can translate the stubbornness of fortune Into so quiet and so sweet a style.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 6)
Come, shall we go and kill us venison? And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools, Being native burghers of this desert city, Should in their own confines with forked heads Have their round haunches gored.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 7)
Indeed, my lord, The melancholy Jaques grieves at that, And in that kind swears you do more usurp Than doth your brother that hath banished you.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 8)
Today my Lord of Amiens and myself Did steal behind him as he lay along Under an oak, whose antique root peeps out Upon the brook that brawls along this wood; To the which place a poor sequestered stag That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt Did come to languish.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 9)
And indeed, my lord, The wretched animal heaved forth such groans That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat Almost to bursting, and the big round tears Coursed one another down his innocent nose In piteous chase.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 10)
And thus the hairy fool, Much marked of the melancholy Jaques, Stood on th' extremest verge of the swift brook, Augmenting it with tears.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 11)
But what said Jaques? Did he not moralize this spectacle?(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 12)
yes, into a thousand similes. First, for his weeping into the needless stream: "Poor deer," quoth he, "thou mak'st a testament As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more To that which had too much.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 13)
" Then, being there alone, Left and abandoned of his velvet friends: "'Tis right," quoth he.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 14)
"Thus misery doth part The flux of company." Anon a careless herd, Full of the pasture, jumps along by him And never stays to greet him.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 15)
"Ay," quoth Jaques, "Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 16)
'Tis just the fashion. Wherefore do you look Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 17)
" Thus most invectively he pierceth through The body of country, city, court, Yea, and of this our life, swearing that we Are mere usurpers, tyrants, and what's worse, To fright the animals and to kill them up In their assigned and native dwelling place.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 18)
And did you leave him in this contemplation?   We did, my lord, weeping and commenting Upon the sobbing deer.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 19)
Show me the place. love to cope him in these sullen fits, For then he's full of matter.(As You Like It, Act 0, Scene 20)
Can it be possible that no man saw them? It cannot be.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 0)
Some villains of my court Are of consent and sufferance in this.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 1)
cannot hear of any that did see her. The ladies her attendants of her chamber Saw her abed, and in the morning early They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 2)
My lord, the roinish clown at whom so oft Your Grace was wont to laugh is also missing.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 3)
Hisperia, the Princess' gentlewoman, Confesses that she secretly o'erheard Your daughter and her cousin much commend The parts and graces of the wrestler That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles, And she believes wherever they are gone That youth is surely in their company.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 4)
Send to his brother. Fetch that gallant hither.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 5)
If he be absent, bring his brother to me. I'll make him find him.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 6)
Do this suddenly, And let not search and inquisition quail To bring again these foolish runaways.(As You Like It, Act 1, Scene 7)
2       Who's there?   What, my young master, my gentle master, my sweet master, you memory Of old Sir Rowland!(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 0)
Why, what make you here? Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 1)
And wherefore are you gentle, strong, and valiant?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 2)
Why would you be so fond to overcome The bonny prizer of the humorous duke?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 3)
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you. Know you not, master, to some kind of men Their graces serve them but as enemies?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 4)
No more do yours. Your virtues, gentle master, Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 5)
what a world is this when what is comely Envenoms him that bears it!(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 6)
Why, what's the matter?  unhappy youth, Come not within these doors.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 7)
Within this roof The enemy of all your graces lives.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 8)
Your brother--no, no brother--yet the son-- Yet not the son, will not call him son-- Of him was about to call his father, Hath heard your praises, and this night he means To burn the lodging where you use to lie, And you within it.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 9)
If he fail of that, He will have other means to cut you off.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 10)
overheard him and his practices. This is no place, this house is but a butchery.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 11)
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.   Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 12)
No matter whither, so you come not here.   What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food, Or with a base and boist'rous sword enforce thievish living on the common road?(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 13)
This must do, or know not what to do; Yet this will not do, do how can.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 14)
rather will subject me to the malice Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 15)
But do not so. have five hundred crowns, The thrifty hire saved under your father, Which did store to be my foster nurse When service should in my old limbs lie lame, And unregarded age in corners thrown.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 16)
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed, Yea, providently caters for the sparrow, Be comfort to my age.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 17)
Here is the gold. All this give you. Let me be your servant.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 18)
Though look old, yet am strong and lusty, For in my youth never did apply Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood, Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo The means of weakness and debility.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 19)
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter, Frosty but kindly.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 20)
Let me go with you. I'll do the service of a younger man In all your business and necessities.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 21)
good old man, how well in thee appears The constant service of the antique world, When service sweat for duty, not for meed.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 22)
Thou art not for the fashion of these times, Where none will sweat but for promotion, And having that do choke their service up Even with the having.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 23)
It is not so with thee. But, poor old man, thou prun'st a rotten tree That cannot so much as a blossom yield In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 24)
But come thy ways. We'll go along together, And ere we have thy youthful wages spent, We'll light upon some settled low content.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 25)
Master, go on, and will follow thee To the last gasp with truth and loyalty.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 26)
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore Here lived but now live here no more.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 27)
At seventeen years, many their fortunes seek, But at fourscore, it is too late a week.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 28)
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better Than to die well, and not my master's debtor.(As You Like It, Act 2, Scene 29)
Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!  care not for my spirits, if my legs were not weary.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 0)
could find in my heart to disgrace my man's apparel and to cry like a woman, but must comfort the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show itself courageous to petticoat.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 1)
Therefore courage, good Aliena.  pray you bear with me.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 2)
cannot go no further.  For my part, had rather bear with you than bear you.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 3)
Yet should bear no cross if did bear you, for think you have no money in your purse.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 4)
Well, this is the Forest of Arden.  Ay, now am in Arden, the more fool When was at home was in a better place, but travelers must be content.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 5)
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.    Look you who comes here, a young man and an old in solemn talk.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 6)
That is the way to make her scorn you still.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 7)
Corin, that thou knew'st how do love her!   partly guess, for have loved ere now.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 8)
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess, Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover As ever sighed upon a midnight pillow.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 9)
But if thy love were ever like to mine-- As sure think did never man love so-- How many actions most ridiculous Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 10)
Into a thousand that have forgotten.   thou didst then never love so heartily.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 11)
If thou rememb'rest not the slightest folly That ever love did make thee run into, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 12)
Or if thou hast not sat as do now, Wearing thy hearer in thy mistress' praise, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 13)
Or if thou hast not broke from company Abruptly, as my passion now makes me, Thou hast not loved.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 14)
Phoebe, Phoebe, Phoebe!   Alas, poor shepherd, searching of thy wound, have by hard adventure found mine own.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 15)
And mine. remember when was in love broke my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for coming a-night to Jane Smile; and remember the kissing of her batler, and the cow's dugs that her pretty chopped hands had milked; and remember the wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom took two cods and, giving her them again, said with weeping tears "Wear these for my sake.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 16)
" We that are true lovers run into strange capers.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 17)
But as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 18)
Thou speak'st wiser than thou art ware of.  Nay, shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till break my shins against it.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 19)
Jove, Jove, this shepherd's passion Is much upon my fashion.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 20)
And mine, but it grows something stale with me.  pray you, one of you question yond man, if he for gold will give us any food.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 21)
faint almost to death.  Holla, you clown!  Peace, fool.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 22)
He's not thy kinsman.  Who calls?  Your betters, sir.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 23)
Else are they very wretched.   Peace, say. Good even toyou, friend.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 24)
And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.   prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold Can in this desert place buy entertainment, Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 25)
Here's a young maid with travel much oppressed, And faints for succor.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 26)
Fair sir, pity her And wish for her sake more than for mine own My fortunes were more able to relieve her.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 27)
But am shepherd to another man And do not shear the fleeces that graze.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 28)
My master is of churlish disposition And little recks to find the way to heaven By doing deeds of hospitality.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 29)
Besides, his cote, his flocks, and bounds of feed Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now, By reason of his absence, there is nothing That you will feed on.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 30)
But what is, come see, And in my voice most welcome shall you be.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 31)
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 32)
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile, That little cares for buying anything.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 33)
pray thee, if it stand with honesty, Buy thou the cottage, pasture, and the flock, And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 34)
And we will mend thy wages. like this place, And willingly could waste my time in it.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 35)
Assuredly the thing is to be sold. Go with me. If you like upon report The soil, the profit, and this kind of life, will your very faithful feeder be And buy it with your gold right suddenly.(As You Like It, Act 3, Scene 36)
Song.   Under the greenwood tree Who loves to lie with me And turn his merry note Unto the sweet bird's throat, Come hither, come hither, come hither.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 0)
Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 1)
More, more, prithee, more.  It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 2)
thank it. More, prithee, more. can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 3)
More, prithee, more.  My voice is ragged. know cannot please you.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 4)
do not desire you to please me. do desire you to sing.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 5)
Come, more, another stanzo. Call you 'em "stanzos"?(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 6)
What you will, Monsieur Jaques.  Nay, care not for their names.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 7)
They owe me nothing. Will you sing?  More at your request than to please myself.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 8)
Well then, if ever thank any man, I'll thank you.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 9)
But that they call "compliment" is like th' encounter of two dog-apes.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 10)
And when a man thanks me heartily, methinks have given him a penny and he renders me the beggarly thanks.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 11)
Come, sing. And you that will not, hold your tongues.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 12)
Well, I'll end the song.--Sirs, cover the while; the Duke will drink under this tree.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 13)
--He hath been all this day to look you.  And have been all this day to avoid him.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 14)
He is too disputable for my company. think of as many matters as he, but give heaven thanks and make no boast of them.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 15)
Come, warble, come.  Song.    Who doth ambition shun And loves to live i' th' sun, Seeking the food he eats And pleased with what he gets, Come hither, come hither, come hither.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 16)
Here shall he see No enemy But winter and rough weather.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 17)
I'll give you a verse to this note that made yesterday in despite of my invention.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 18)
And I'll sing it.  Thus it goes: If it do come to pass That any man turn ass, Leaving his wealth and ease stubborn will to please, Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 19)
Here shall he see Gross fools as he, An if he will come to me.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 20)
What's that "ducdame"?  'Tis a Greek invocation to call fools into a circle.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 21)
I'll go sleep if can. If cannot, I'll rail against all the first-born of Egypt.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 22)
And I'll go seek the Duke. His banquet is prepared.(As You Like It, Act 4, Scene 23)
Dear master, can go no further. die for food. Here lie down and measure out my grave.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 0)
Farewell, kind master.  Why, how now, Adam? No greater heart in thee?(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 1)
Live a little, comfort a little, cheer thyself a little.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 2)
If this uncouth forest yield anything savage, will either be food for it or bring it for food to thee.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 3)
Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers. For my sake, be comfortable.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 4)
Hold death awhile at the arm's end. will here be with thee presently, and if bring thee not something to eat, will give thee leave to die.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 5)
But if thou diest before come, thou art a mocker of my labor.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 6)
Well said. Thou look'st cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 7)
Yet thou liest in the bleak air. Come, will bear thee to some shelter, and thou shalt not die for lack of a dinner if there live anything in this desert.(As You Like It, Act 5, Scene 8)
think he be transformed into a beast, For can nowhere find him like a man.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 0)
My lord, he is but even now gone hence. Here was he merry, hearing of a song.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 1)
If he, compact of jars, grow musical, We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 2)
Go seek him. Tell him would speak with him.      He saves my labor by his own approach.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 3)
Why, how now, monsieur? What a life is this That your poor friends must woo your company?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 4)
What, you look merrily.   fool, a fool, met a fool i' th' forest, motley fool.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 5)
miserable world! As do live by food, met a fool, Who laid him down and basked him in the sun And railed on Lady Fortune in good terms, In good set terms, and yet a motley fool.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 6)
"Good morrow, fool," quoth "No, sir," quoth he, "Call me not 'fool' till heaven hath sent me fortune.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 7)
" And then he drew a dial from his poke And, looking on it with lack-luster eye, Says very wisely "It is ten o'clock.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 8)
Thus we may see," quoth he, "how the world wags. 'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine, And after one hour more 'twill be eleven.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 9)
And so from hour to hour we ripe and ripe, And then from hour to hour we rot and rot, And thereby hangs a tale.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 10)
" When did hear The motley fool thus moral on the time, My lungs began to crow like chanticleer That fools should be so deep-contemplative, And did laugh sans intermission An hour by his dial.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 11)
noble fool! worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.  What fool is this?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 12)
worthy fool!--One that hath been a courtier, And says "If ladies be but young and fair, They have the gift to know it.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 13)
" And in his brain, Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit After a voyage, he hath strange places crammed With observation, the which he vents In mangled forms.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 14)
that were a fool! am ambitious for a motley coat.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 15)
Thou shalt have one.  It is my only suit, Provided that you weed your better judgments Of all opinion that grows rank in them That am wise.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 16)
must have liberty Withal, as large a charter as the wind, To blow on whom please, for so fools have.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 17)
And they that are most galled with my folly, They most must laugh.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 18)
And why, sir, must they so? The "why" is plain as way to parish church: He that a fool doth very wisely hit Doth very foolishly, although he smart, Not to seem senseless of the bob.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 19)
If not, The wise man's folly is anatomized Even by the squand'ring glances of the fool.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 20)
Invest me in my motley. Give me leave To speak my mind, and will through and through Cleanse the foul body of th' infected world, If they will patiently receive my medicine.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 21)
Fie on thee! can tell what thou wouldst do.   What, for a counter, would do but good?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 22)
Most mischievous foul sin in chiding sin; For thou thyself hast been a libertine, As sensual as the brutish sting itself, And all th' embossed sores and headed evils That thou with license of free foot hast caught Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 23)
Why, who cries out on pride That can therein tax any private party?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 24)
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea Till that the weary very means do ebb?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 25)
What woman in the city do name When that say the city-woman bears The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 26)
Who can come in and say that mean her, When such a one as she such is her neighbor?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 27)
Or what is he of basest function That says his bravery is not on my cost, Thinking that mean him, but therein suits His folly to the mettle of my speech?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 28)
There then. How then, what then? Let me see wherein My tongue hath wronged him.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 29)
If it do him right, Then he hath wronged himself.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 30)
If he be free, Why then my taxing like a wild goose flies Unclaimed of any man.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 31)
But who comes here?  Forbear, and eat no more.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 32)
Why, have eat none yet.   Nor shalt not till necessity be served.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 33)
Of what kind should this cock come of?   Art thou thus boldened, man, by thy distress, Or else a rude despiser of good manners, That in civility thou seem'st so empty?(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 34)
You touched my vein at first. The thorny point Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show Of smooth civility, yet am inland bred And know some nurture.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 35)
But forbear, say. He dies that touches any of this fruit Till and my affairs are answered.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 36)
An you will not be answered with reason, must die.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 37)
What would you have? Your gentleness shall force More than your force move us to gentleness.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 38)
almost die for food, and let me have it.   Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 39)
Speak you so gently? Pardon me, pray you. thought that all things had been savage here, And therefore put on the countenance Of stern commandment.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 40)
But whate'er you are That in this desert inaccessible, Under the shade of melancholy boughs, Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time, If ever you have looked on better days, If ever been where bells have knolled to church, If ever sat at any good man's feast, If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied, Let gentleness my strong enforcement be, In the which hope blush and hide my sword.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 41)
True is it that we have seen better days, And have with holy bell been knolled to church, And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes Of drops that sacred pity hath engendered.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 42)
And therefore sit you down in gentleness, And take upon command what help we have That to your wanting may be ministered.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 43)
Then but forbear your food a little while Whiles, like a doe, go to find my fawn And give it food.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 44)
There is an old poor man Who after me hath many a weary step Limped in pure love.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 45)
Till he be first sufficed, Oppressed with two weak evils, age and hunger, will not touch a bit.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 46)
Go find him out, And we will nothing waste till you return.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 47)
thank you; and be blessed for your good comfort.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 48)
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy. This wide and universal theater Presents more woeful pageants than the scene Wherein we play in.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 49)
All the world's a stage, And all the men and women merely players.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 50)
They have their exits and their entrances, And one man in his time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 51)
At first the infant, Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 52)
Then the whining schoolboy with his satchel And shining morning face, creeping like snail Unwillingly to school.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 53)
And then the lover, Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad Made to his mistress' eyebrow.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 54)
Then a soldier, Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard, Jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel, Seeking the bubble reputation Even in the cannon's mouth.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 55)
And then the justice, In fair round belly with good capon lined, With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, Full of wise saws and modern instances; And so he plays his part.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 56)
The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slippered pantaloon With spectacles on nose and pouch on side, His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide For his shrunk shank, and his big manly voice, Turning again toward childish treble, pipes And whistles in his sound.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 57)
Last scene of all, That ends this strange eventful history, Is second childishness and mere oblivion, Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 58)
Welcome. Set down your venerable burden, And let him feed.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 59)
thank you most for him.  So had you need.-- scarce can speak to thank you for myself.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 60)
Welcome. Fall to. will not trouble you As yet to question you about your fortunes.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 61)
-- Give us some music, and, good cousin, sing.      Song.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 62)
Blow, blow, thou winter wind. Thou art not so unkind As man's ingratitude.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 63)
Thy tooth is not so keen, Because thou art not seen, Although thy breath be rude.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 64)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 65)
Then heigh-ho, the holly. This life is most jolly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 66)
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky, That dost not bite so nigh As benefits forgot.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 67)
Though thou the waters warp, Thy sting is not so sharp As friend remembered not.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 68)
Heigh-ho, sing heigh-ho, unto the green holly. Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 69)
Then heigh-ho, the holly. This life is most jolly.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 70)
If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son, As you have whispered faithfully you were, And as mine eye doth his effigies witness Most truly limned and living in your face, Be truly welcome hither.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 71)
am the duke That loved your father. The residue of your fortune Go to my cave and tell me.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 72)
--Good old man, Thou art right welcome as thy master is.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 73)
Support him by the arm. [To Orlando.] Give me your hand, And let me all your fortunes understand.(As You Like It, Act 6, Scene 74)
The augurer tells me we shall have news tonight.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 0)
Good or bad?  Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love not Martius.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 1)
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.  Pray you, who does the wolf love?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 2)
The lamb.  Ay, to devour him, as the hungry plebeians would the noble Martius.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 3)
He's a lamb indeed, that baas like a bear.  He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 4)
You two are old men; tell me one thing that shall ask you.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 5)
Well, sir.  In what enormity is Martius poor in, that you two have not in abundance?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 6)
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.  Especially in pride.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 7)
And topping all others in boasting.  This is strange now.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 8)
Do you two know how you are censured here in the city, mean of us o' th' right-hand file, do you?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 9)
Why, how are we censured?  Because you talk of pride now, will you not be angry?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 10)
Well, well, sir, well?  Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 11)
Give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at your pleasures, at the least, if you take it as a pleasure to you in being so.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 12)
You blame Martius for being proud.  We do it not alone, sir.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 13)
know you can do very little alone, for your helps are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous single.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 14)
Your abilities are too infantlike for doing much alone.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 15)
You talk of pride. that you could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks and make but an interior survey of your good selves!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 16)
that you could!  What then, sir?  Why, then you should discover a brace of unmeriting, proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 17)
Menenius, you are known well enough, too.  am known to be a humorous patrician and one that loves a cup of hot wine with not a drop of allaying Tiber in 't; said to be something imperfect in favoring the first complaint, hasty and tinder-like upon too trivial motion; one that converses more with the buttock of the night than with the forehead of the morning.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 18)
What think utter, and spend my malice in my breath.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 19)
Meeting two such wealsmen as you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink you give me touch my palate adversely, make a crooked face at it.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 20)
cannot say your Worships have delivered the matter well when find the ass in compound with the major part of your syllables.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 21)
And though must be content to bear with those that say you are reverend grave men, yet they lie deadly that tell you have good faces.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 22)
If you see this in the map of my microcosm, follows it that am known well enough too?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 23)
What harm can your bisson conspectuities glean out of this character, if be known well enough, too?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 24)
Come, sir, come; we know you well enough.  You know neither me, yourselves, nor anything.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 25)
You are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 26)
You wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a cause between an orange-wife and a faucet-seller, and then rejourn the controversy of threepence to a second day of audience.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 27)
When you are hearing a matter between party and party, if you chance to be pinched with the colic, you make faces like mummers, set up the bloody flag against all patience, and, in roaring for a chamber pot, dismiss the controversy bleeding, the more entangled by your hearing.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 28)
All the peace you make in their cause is calling both the parties knaves.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 29)
You are a pair of strange ones.  Come, come. You are well understood to be a perfecter giber for the table than a necessary bencher in the Capitol.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 30)
Our very priests must become mockers if they shall encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 31)
When you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the wagging of your beards, and your beards deserve not so honorable a grave as to stuff a botcher's cushion or to be entombed in an ass's packsaddle.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 32)
Yet you must be saying Martius is proud, who, in a cheap estimation, is worth all your predecessors since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the best of 'em were hereditary hangmen.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 33)
Good e'en to your Worships. More of your conversation would infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 34)
will be bold to take my leave of you.     How now, my as fair as noble ladies--and the moon, were she earthly, no nobler--whither do you follow your eyes so fast?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 35)
Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius approaches. For the love of Juno, let's go!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 36)
Ha? Martius coming home?  Ay, worthy Menenius, and with most prosperous approbation.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 37)
Take my cap, Jupiter, and thank thee! Hoo! Martius coming home?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 38)
Nay, 'tis true.  Look, here's a letter from him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 39)
The state hath another, his wife another, and think there's one at home for you.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 40)
will make my very house reel tonight. letter for me?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 41)
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; saw 't.  letter for me?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 42)
It gives me an estate of seven years' health, in which time will make a lip at the physician.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 43)
The most sovereign prescription in Galen is but empiricutic and, to this preservative, of no better report than a horse drench.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 44)
Is he not wounded? He was wont to come home wounded.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 45)
no, no, no!  he is wounded, thank the gods for 't.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 46)
So do too, if it be not too much. Brings he victory in his pocket, the wounds become him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 47)
On 's brows, Menenius. He comes the third time home with the oaken garland.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 48)
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?  Titus Lartius writes they fought together, but Aufidius got off.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 49)
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 50)
An he had stayed by him, would not have been so 'fidiused for all the chests in Corioles and the gold that's in them.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 51)
Is the Senate possessed of this?  Good ladies, let's go.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 52)
--Yes, yes, yes. The Senate has letters from the General, wherein he gives my son the whole name of the war.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 53)
He hath in this action outdone his former deeds doubly.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 54)
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.  Wondrous?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 55)
Ay, warrant you, and not without his true purchasing.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 56)
The gods grant them true.  True? Pow waw!  True?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 57)
I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he wounded?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 58)
God save your good Worships! Martius is coming home; he has more cause to be proud.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 59)
--Where is he wounded?  th' shoulder and i' th' left arm.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 60)
There will be large cicatrices to show the people when he shall stand for his place.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 61)
He received in the repulse of Tarquin seven hurts i' th' body.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 62)
One i' th' neck and two i' th' thigh--there's nine that know.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 63)
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five wounds upon him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 64)
Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an Hark, the trumpets!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 65)
These are the ushers of Martius: before him he carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 66)
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie, Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 67)
them Coriolanus crowned with an oaken garland, with     Know, Rome, that all alone Martius did fight Within Corioles' gates, where he hath won, With fame, a name to Martius Caius; these In honor follows "Coriolanus.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 68)
" Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus.    Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 69)
No more of this. It does offend my heart. Pray now, no more.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 70)
Look, sir, your mother.   You have, know, petitioned all the gods For my prosperity.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 71)
Nay, my good soldier, up.  My gentle Martius, worthy Caius, and By deed-achieving honor newly named-- What is it?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 72)
Coriolanus must call thee? But, thy wife--  My gracious silence, hail.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 73)
Wouldst thou have laughed had come coffined home, That weep'st to see me triumph?(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 74)
Ah, my dear, Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear And mothers that lack sons.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 75)
Now the gods crown thee!   And live you yet?  my sweet lady, pardon.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 76)
know not where to turn. welcome home!-- And, welcome, general.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 77)
--And you're welcome all.   hundred thousand welcomes!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 78)
could weep, And could laugh; am light and heavy. Welcome.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 79)
curse begin at very root on 's heart That is not glad to see thee!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 80)
You are three That Rome should dote on; yet, by the faith of men, We have some old crab trees here at home that will not Be grafted to your relish.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 81)
Yet welcome, warriors! We call a nettle but a nettle, and The faults of fools but folly.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 82)
Ever right.  Menenius ever, ever.   Give way there, and go on!(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 83)
Your hand and yours. Ere in our own house do shade my head, The good patricians must be visited, From whom have received not only greetings, But with them change of honors.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 84)
have lived To see inherited my very wishes And the buildings of my fancy.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 85)
Only There's one thing wanting, which doubt not but Our Rome will cast upon thee.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 86)
Know, good mother, had rather be their servant in my way Than sway with them in theirs.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 87)
On, to the Capitol.        All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights Are spectacled to see him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 88)
Your prattling nurse Into a rapture lets her baby cry While she chats him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 89)
The kitchen malkin pins Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck, Clamb'ring the walls to eye him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 90)
Stalls, bulks, windows Are smothered up, leads filled, and ridges horsed With variable complexions, all agreeing In earnestness to see him.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 91)
Seld-shown flamens Do press among the popular throngs and puff To win a vulgar station.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 92)
Our veiled dames Commit the war of white and damask in Their nicely-gauded cheeks to th' wanton spoil Of Phoebus' burning kisses.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 93)
Such a pother, As if that whatsoever god who leads him Were slyly crept into his human powers And gave him graceful posture.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 94)
On the sudden warrant him consul.  Then our office may, During his power, go sleep.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 95)
He cannot temp'rately transport his honors From where he should begin and end, but will Lose those he hath won.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 96)
In that there's comfort.  Doubt not The commoners, for whom we stand, but they Upon their ancient malice will forget With the least cause these his new honors--which That he will give them make as little question As he is proud to do 't.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 97)
heard him swear, Were he to stand for consul, never would he Appear i' th' marketplace nor on him put The napless vesture of humility, Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds To th' people, beg their stinking breaths.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 98)
'Tis right.   It was his word. he would miss it rather Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him And the desire of the nobles.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 99)
wish no better Than have him hold that purpose and to put it In execution.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 100)
'Tis most like he will.   It shall be to him then as our good wills, sure destruction.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 101)
So it must fall out To him, or our authority's for an end.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 102)
We must suggest the people in what hatred He still hath held them; that to 's power he would Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders, and Dispropertied their freedoms; holding them In human action and capacity Of no more soul nor fitness for the world Than camels in their war, who have their provand Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows For sinking under them.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 103)
This, as you say, suggested At some time when his soaring insolence Shall touch the people--which time shall not want If he be put upon 't, and that's as easy As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire To kindle their dry stubble, and their blaze Shall darken him forever.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 104)
What's the matter?   You are sent for to the Capitol.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 105)
'Tis thought That Martius shall be consul. have seen The dumb men throng to see him, and the blind To hear him speak; matrons flung gloves, Ladies and maids their scarves and handkerchiefs, Upon him as he passed; the nobles bended As to Jove's statue, and the Commons made shower and thunder with their caps and shouts.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 106)
never saw the like.  Let's to the Capitol, And carry with us ears and eyes for th' time, But hearts for the event.(Coriolanus, Act 0, Scene 107)
Come, come. They are almost here. How many stand for consulships?(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 0)
Three, they say; but 'tis thought of everyone Coriolanus will carry it.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 1)
That's a brave fellow, but he's vengeance proud and loves not the common people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 2)
'Faith, there hath been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them; and there be many that they have loved they know not wherefore; so that, if they love they know not why, they hate upon no better a ground.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 3)
Therefore, for Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate him manifests the true knowledge he has in their disposition and, out of his noble carelessness, lets them plainly see 't.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 4)
If he did not care whether he had their love or no, he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm; but he seeks their hate with greater devotion than they can render it him and leaves nothing undone that may fully discover him their opposite.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 5)
Now, to seem to affect the malice and displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he dislikes, to flatter them for their love.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 6)
He hath deserved worthily of his country, and his ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who, having been supple and courteous to the people, bonneted, without any further deed to have them at all into their estimation and report; but he hath so planted his honors in their eyes and his actions in their hearts that for their tongues to be silent and not confess so much were a kind of ingrateful injury.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 7)
To report otherwise were a malice that, giving itself the lie, would pluck reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 8)
No more of him; he's a worthy man. Make way. They are coming.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 9)
sennet. Enter the Patricians and the Tribunes of the people, Lictors before them; Coriolanus, Menenius, Cominius the consul.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 10)
The Patricians sit. Sicinius and Brutus take their places by themselves.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 11)
Having determined of the Volsces and To send for Titus Lartius, it remains, As the main point of this our after-meeting, To gratify his noble service that Hath thus stood for his country.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 12)
Therefore please you, Most reverend and grave elders, to desire The present consul and last general In our well-found successes to report little of that worthy work performed By Martius Caius Coriolanus, whom We met here both to thank and to remember With honors like himself.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 13)
Speak, good Cominius. Leave nothing out for length, and make us think Rather our state's defective for requital, Than we to stretch it out.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 14)
Masters o' th' people, We do request your kindest ears and, after, Your loving motion toward the common body To yield what passes here.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 15)
We are convented Upon a pleasing treaty and have hearts Inclinable to honor and advance The theme of our assembly.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 16)
Which the rather We shall be blest to do if he remember kinder value of the people than He hath hereto prized them at.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 17)
That's off, that's off! would you rather had been silent.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 18)
Please you To hear Cominius speak?  Most willingly, But yet my caution was more pertinent Than the rebuke you give it.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 19)
He loves your people, But tie him not to be their bedfellow.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 20)
-- Worthy Cominius, speak.  Nay, keep your place.   Sit, Coriolanus.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 21)
Never shame to hear What you have nobly done.  Your Honors, pardon.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 22)
had rather have my wounds to heal again Than hear say how got them.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 23)
Sir, hope My words disbenched you not?  No, sir.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 24)
Yet oft, When blows have made me stay, fled from words.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 25)
You soothed not, therefore hurt not; but your people, love them as they weigh.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 26)
Pray now, sit down.   had rather have one scratch my head i' th' sun When the alarum were struck than idly sit To hear my nothings monstered.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 27)
Masters of the people, Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter-- That's thousand to one good one--when you now see He had rather venture all his limbs for honor Than one on 's ears to hear it.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 28)
--Proceed, Cominius.   shall lack voice. The deeds of Coriolanus Should not be uttered feebly.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 29)
It is held That valor is the chiefest virtue and Most dignifies the haver; if it be, The man speak of cannot in the world Be singly counterpoised.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 30)
At sixteen years, When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought Beyond the mark of others.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 31)
Our then dictator, Whom with all praise point at, saw him fight When with his Amazonian chin he drove The bristled lips before him.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 32)
He bestrid An o'erpressed Roman and i' th' Consul's view Slew three opposers.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 33)
Tarquin's self he met And struck him on his knee.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 34)
In that day's feats, When he might act the woman in the scene, He proved best man i' th' field and for his meed Was brow-bound with the oak.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 35)
His pupil age Man-entered thus, he waxed like a sea, And in the brunt of seventeen battles since He lurched all swords of the garland.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 36)
For this last, Before and in Corioles, let me say, cannot speak him home.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 37)
He stopped the flyers And by his rare example made the coward Turn terror into sport.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 38)
As weeds before vessel under sail, so men obeyed And fell below his stem.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 39)
His sword, Death's stamp, Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot He was a thing of blood, whose every motion Was timed with dying cries.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 40)
Alone he entered The mortal gate o' th' city, which he painted With shunless destiny; aidless came off And with a sudden reinforcement struck Corioles like a planet.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 41)
Now all's his, When by and by the din of war gan pierce His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit Requickened what in flesh was fatigate, And to the battle came he, where he did Run reeking o'er the lives of men as if 'Twere a perpetual spoil; and till we called Both field and city ours, he never stood To ease his breast with panting.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 42)
Worthy man!   He cannot but with measure fit the honors Which we devise him.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 43)
Our spoils he kicked at And looked upon things precious as they were The common muck of the world.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 44)
He covets less Than misery itself would give, rewards His deeds with doing them, and is content To spend the time to end it.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 45)
He's right noble. Let him be called for.  Call Coriolanus.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 46)
He doth appear.      The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased To make thee consul.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 47)
do owe them still My life and services.  It then remains That you do speak to the people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 48)
do beseech you, Let me o'erleap that custom, for cannot Put on the gown, stand naked, and entreat them For my wounds' sake to give their suffrage.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 49)
Please you That may pass this doing.  Sir, the people Must have their voices; neither will they bate One jot of ceremony.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 50)
Put them not to 't. Pray you, go fit you to the custom, and Take to you, as your predecessors have, Your honor with your form.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 51)
It is a part That shall blush in acting, and might well Be taken from the people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 52)
Mark you that?   To brag unto them "Thus did, and thus!(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 53)
" Show them th' unaching scars, which should hide, As if had received them for the hire Of their breath only!(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 54)
Do not stand upon 't.-- We recommend to you, tribunes of the people, Our purpose to them, and to our noble consul Wish we all joy and honor.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 55)
To Coriolanus come all joy and honor!     You see how he intends to use the people.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 56)
May they perceive 's intent! He will require them As if he did contemn what he requested Should be in them to give.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 57)
Come, we'll inform them Of our proceedings here.(Coriolanus, Act 1, Scene 58)
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 0)
We may, sir, if we will.  We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a power that we have no power to do; for, if he show us his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our tongues into those wounds and speak for them.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 1)
So, if he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him our noble acceptance of them.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 2)
Ingratitude is monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful were to make a monster of the multitude, of the which, we being members, should bring ourselves to be monstrous members.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 3)
And to make us no better thought of, a little help will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 4)
We have been called so of many; not that our heads are some brown, some black, some abram, some bald, but that our wits are so diversely colored; and truly think if all our wits were to issue out of one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south, and their consent of one direct way should be at once to all the points o' th' compass.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 5)
Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would fly?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 6)
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's will; 'tis strongly wedged up in a blockhead.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 7)
But if it were at liberty, 'twould sure southward.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 8)
Why that way?  To lose itself in a fog, where, being three parts melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return for conscience' sake, to help to get thee a wife.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 9)
You are never without your tricks. You may, you may.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 10)
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But that's no matter; the greater part carries it.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 11)
say, if he would incline to the people, there was never a worthier man.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 12)
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility. Mark his behavior.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 13)
We are not to stay all together, but to come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos, and by threes.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 14)
He's to make his requests by particulars, wherein every one of us has a single honor in giving him our own voices with our own tongues.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 15)
Therefore follow me, and I'll direct you how you shall go by him.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 16)
Content, content.   sir, you are not right. Have you not known The worthiest men have done 't?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 17)
What must say? pray, sir?"--plague upon 't! cannot bring My tongue to such a pace.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 18)
"Look, sir, my wounds! got them in my country's service when Some certain of your brethren roared and ran From th' noise of our own drums.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 19)
"  me, the gods! You must not speak of that. You must desire them To think upon you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 20)
Think upon me? Hang 'em! would they would forget me, like the virtues Which our divines lose by 'em.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 21)
You'll mar all. I'll leave you. Pray you, speak to 'em, pray you, In wholesome manner.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 22)
Bid them wash their faces And keep their teeth clean.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 23)
So, here comes a brace.-- You know the cause, sir, of my standing here.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 24)
We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you to 't.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 25)
Mine own desert.  Your own desert?  Ay, but not mine own desire.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 26)
How, not your own desire?  No, sir, 'twas never my desire yet to trouble the poor with begging.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 27)
You must think if we give you anything, we hope to gain by you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 28)
Well then, pray, your price o' th' consulship?  The price is to ask it kindly.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 29)
Kindly, sir, pray, let me ha 't. have wounds to show you, which shall be yours in private.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 30)
--Your good voice, sir. What say you?  You shall ha 't, worthy sir.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 31)
match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices begged.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 32)
have your alms. Adieu.  But this is something odd.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 33)
An 'twere to give again--but 'tis no matter.     Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your voices that may be consul, have here the customary gown.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 34)
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you have not deserved nobly.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 35)
Your enigma?  You have been a scourge to her enemies; you have been a rod to her friends.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 36)
You have not indeed loved the common people.  You should account me the more virtuous that have not been common in my love.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 37)
will, sir, flatter my sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account gentle.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 38)
And since the wisdom of their choice is rather to have my hat than my heart, will practice the insinuating nod and be off to them most counterfeitly.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 39)
That is, sir, will counterfeit the bewitchment of some popular man and give it bountiful to the desirers.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 40)
Therefore, beseech you, may be consul.  We hope to find you our friend, and therefore give you our voices heartily.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 41)
You have received many wounds for your country.  will not seal your knowledge with showing them.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 42)
will make much of your voices and so trouble you no farther.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 43)
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily.   Most sweet voices!(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 44)
Better it is to die, better to starve, Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 45)
Why in this woolvish toge should stand here To beg of Hob and Dick that does appear Their needless vouches?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 46)
Custom calls me to 't. What custom wills, in all things should we do 't?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 47)
The dust on antique time would lie unswept And mountainous error be too highly heaped For truth to o'erpeer.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 48)
Rather than fool it so, Let the high office and the honor go To one that would do thus.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 49)
am half through; The one part suffered, the other will do.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 50)
Here come more voices.-- Your voices! For your voices have fought; Watched for your voices; for your voices bear Of wounds two dozen odd.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 51)
Battles thrice six have seen and heard of; for your voices have Done many things, some less, some more.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 52)
Your voices! Indeed, would be consul.  He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest man's voice.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 53)
Therefore let him be consul. The gods give him joy, and make him good friend to the people!(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 54)
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul.   Worthy voices!(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 55)
You have stood your limitation, and the Tribunes Endue you with the people's voice.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 56)
Remains That in th' official marks invested, you Anon do meet the Senate.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 57)
Is this done?   The custom of request you have discharged.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 58)
The people do admit you, and are summoned To meet anon upon your approbation.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 59)
Where? At the Senate House?  There, Coriolanus.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 60)
May change these garments?  You may, sir.   That I'll straight do and, knowing myself again, Repair to th' Senate House.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 61)
I'll keep you company.--Will you along?   We stay here for the people.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 62)
Fare you well.  He has it now; and by his looks, methinks, 'Tis warm at 's heart.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 63)
With a proud heart he wore His humble weeds. Will you dismiss the people?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 64)
How now, my masters, have you chose this man?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 65)
He has our voices, sir.   We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 66)
Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice, He mocked us when he begged our voices.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 67)
Certainly, he flouted us downright.   No, 'tis his kind of speech.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 68)
He did not mock us.   Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says He used us scornfully.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 69)
He should have showed us His marks of merit, wounds received for 's country.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 70)
Why, so he did, am sure.  No, no. No man saw 'em.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 71)
He said he had wounds, which he could show in private, And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn, would be consul," says he.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 72)
"Aged custom, But by your voices, will not so permit me; Your voices therefore.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 73)
" When we granted that, Here was thank you for your voices.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 74)
Thank you. Your most sweet voices! Now you have left your voices, have no further with you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 75)
" Was not this mockery?   Why either were you ignorant to see 't Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness To yield your voices?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 76)
Could you not have told him As you were lessoned?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 77)
When he had no power, But was a petty servant to the state, He was your enemy, ever spake against Your liberties and the charters that you bear th' body of the weal; and, now arriving place of potency and sway o' th' state, If he should still malignantly remain Fast foe to th' plebeii, your voices might Be curses to yourselves.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 78)
You should have said That as his worthy deeds did claim no less Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature Would think upon you for your voices, and Translate his malice towards you into love, Standing your friendly lord.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 79)
Thus to have said, As you were fore-advised, had touched his spirit And tried his inclination; from him plucked Either his gracious promise, which you might, As cause had called you up, have held him to; Or else it would have galled his surly nature, Which easily endures not article Tying him to aught.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 80)
So putting him to rage, You should have ta'en th' advantage of his choler And passed him unelected.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 81)
Did you perceive He did solicit you in free contempt When he did need your loves, and do you think That his contempt shall not be bruising to you When he hath power to crush?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 82)
Why, had your bodies No heart among you? Or had you tongues to cry Against the rectorship of judgment?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 83)
Have you ere now denied the asker? And now Again, of him that did not ask but mock, Bestow your sued-for tongues?(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 84)
He's not confirmed. We may deny him yet.  And will deny him.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 85)
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.   twice five hundred, and their friends to piece 'em.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 86)
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends They have chose a consul that will from them take Their liberties, make them of no more voice Than dogs that are as often beat for barking As therefor kept to do so.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 87)
Let them assemble And, on a safer judgment, all revoke Your ignorant election.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 88)
Enforce his pride And his old hate unto you. Besides, forget not With what contempt he wore the humble weed, How in his suit he scorned you; but your loves, Thinking upon his services, took from you Th' apprehension of his present portance, Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion After the inveterate hate he bears you.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 89)
Lay fault on us, your tribunes, that we labored, No impediment between, but that you must Cast your election on him.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 90)
Say you chose him More after our commandment than as guided By your own true affections, and that your minds, Preoccupied with what you rather must do Than what you should, made you against the grain To voice him consul.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 91)
Lay the fault on us.   Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you, How youngly he began to serve his country, How long continued, and what stock he springs of, The noble house o' th' Martians, from whence came That Ancus Martius, Numa's daughter's son, Who after great Hostilius here was king, Of the same house Publius and Quintus were, That our best water brought by conduits hither; And Censorinus, that was so surnamed, And nobly named so, twice being censor, Was his great ancestor.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 92)
One thus descended, That hath besides well in his person wrought To be set high in place, we did commend To your remembrances; but you have found, Scaling his present bearing with his past, That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke Your sudden approbation.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 93)
Say you ne'er had done 't-- Harp on that still--but by our putting on.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 94)
And presently, when you have drawn your number, Repair to th' Capitol.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 95)
We will so. Almost all Repent in their election.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 96)
Let them go on. This mutiny were better put in hazard Than stay, past doubt, for greater.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 97)
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage With their refusal, both observe and answer The vantage of his anger.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 98)
To th' Capitol, come. We will be there before the stream o' th' people, And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own, Which we have goaded onward.(Coriolanus, Act 2, Scene 99)
Was there ever man had such luck? When kissed the jack, upon an upcast to be hit away?(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 0)
had a hundred pound on 't. And then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing, as if borrowed mine oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 1)
What got he by that? You have broke his pate with your bowl.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 2)
If his wit had been like him that broke it, it would have run all out.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 3)
When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha?(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 4)
No, my lord,  nor crop the ears of them.  Whoreson dog!(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 5)
gave him satisfaction. Would he had been one of my rank.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 6)
To have smelled like a fool.  am not vexed more at anything in th' Earth.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 7)
pox on 't! had rather not be so noble as am. They dare not fight with me because of the Queen my mother.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 8)
Every jack-slave hath his bellyful of fighting, and must go up and down like a cock that nobody can match.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 9)
You are cock and capon too, and you crow cock with your comb on.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 10)
Sayest thou?  It is not fit your Lordship should undertake every companion that you give offense to.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 11)
No, know that, but it is fit should commit offense to my inferiors.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 12)
Ay, it is fit for your Lordship only.  Why, so say.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 13)
Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court tonight?(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 14)
stranger, and not know on 't?  He's a strange fellow himself and knows it not.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 15)
There's an Italian come, and 'tis thought one of Leonatus' friends.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 16)
Leonatus? banished rascal; and he's another, whatsoever he be.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 17)
Who told you of this stranger?  One of your Lordship's pages.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 18)
Is it fit went to look upon him? Is there no derogation in 't?(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 19)
You cannot derogate, my lord.  Not easily, think.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 20)
You are a fool granted; therefore your issues, being foolish, do not derogate.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 21)
Come, I'll go see this Italian. What have lost today at bowls I'll win tonight of him.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 22)
Come, go.  I'll attend your Lordship.  That such a crafty devil as is his mother Should yield the world this ass!(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 23)
woman that Bears all down with her brain, and this her son Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart, And leave eighteen.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 24)
Alas, poor princess, Thou divine Imogen, what thou endur'st, Betwixt a father by thy stepdame governed, mother hourly coining plots, a wooer More hateful than the foul expulsion is Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act Of the divorce he'd make!(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 25)
The heavens hold firm The walls of thy dear honor, keep unshaked That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand enjoy thy banished lord and this great land.(Cymbeline, Act 0, Scene 26)
trunk is brought in. Enter Imogen, reading, in her     Who's there?(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 0)
My woman Helen?  Please you, madam.   What hour is it?(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 1)
Almost midnight, madam.   have read three hours then.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 2)
Mine eyes are weak.  Fold down the leaf where have left.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 3)
To bed. Take not away the taper; leave it burning.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 4)
And if thou canst awake by four o' th' clock, prithee, call me.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 5)
Sleep hath seized me wholly. To your protection commend me, gods.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 6)
From fairies and the tempters of the night Guard me, beseech you.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 7)
The crickets sing, and man's o'erlabored sense Repairs itself by rest.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 8)
Our Tarquin thus Did softly press the rushes ere he wakened The chastity he wounded.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 9)
--Cytherea, How bravely thou becom'st thy bed, fresh lily, And whiter than the sheets.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 10)
--That might touch! But kiss, one kiss! Rubies unparagoned, How dearly they do 't.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 11)
'Tis her breathing that Perfumes the chamber thus.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 12)
The flame o' th' taper Bows toward her and would underpeep her lids To see th' enclosed lights, now canopied Under these windows, white and azure-laced With blue of heaven's own tinct.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 13)
But my design: To note the chamber. will write all down.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 14)
Such and such pictures; there the window; such Th' adornment of her bed; the arras, figures, Why, such and such; and the contents o' th' story.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 15)
Ah, but some natural notes about her body Above ten thousand meaner movables Would testify t' enrich mine inventory.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 16)
sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her, And be her sense but as a monument Thus in a chapel lying.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 17)
Come off, come off; As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 18)
'Tis mine, and this will witness outwardly As strongly as the conscience does within To th' madding of her lord.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 19)
On her left breast mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops th' bottom of a cowslip.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 20)
Here's a voucher Stronger than ever law could make.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 21)
This secret Will force him think have picked the lock and ta'en The treasure of her honor.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 22)
No more. To what end? Why should write this down that's riveted, Screwed to my memory?(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 23)
She hath been reading late The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turned down Where Philomel gave up.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 24)
have enough. To th' trunk again, and shut the spring of it.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 25)
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning May bare the raven's eye.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 26)
lodge in fear. Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.(Cymbeline, Act 1, Scene 27)
Your Lordship is the most patient man in loss, the most coldest that ever turned up ace.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 0)
It would make any man cold to lose.  But not every man patient after the noble temper of your Lordship.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 1)
You are most hot and furious when you win.  Winning will put any man into courage.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 2)
If could get this foolish Imogen, should have gold enough.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 3)
It's almost morning, is 't not?  Day, my lord.  would this music would come.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 4)
am advised to give her music a-mornings; they say it will penetrate.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 5)
Come on, tune. If you can penetrate her with your fingering, so.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 6)
We'll try with tongue, too. If none will do, let her remain, but I'll never give o'er.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 7)
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to it, and then let her consider.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 8)
Song.  Hark, hark, the lark at heaven's gate sings, And Phoebus gins arise, His steeds to water at those springs On chaliced flowers that lies; And winking Mary-buds begin To ope their golden eyes.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 9)
With everything that pretty is, My lady sweet, arise, Arise, arise.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 10)
So, get you gone. If this penetrate, will consider your music the better.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 11)
If it do not, it is a vice in her ears which horsehairs and calves' guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to boot, can never amend.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 12)
Here comes the King.  am glad was up so late, for that's the reason was up so early.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 13)
He cannot choose but take this service have done fatherly.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 14)
--Good morrow to your Majesty and to my gracious mother.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 15)
Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 16)
Will she not forth?  have assailed her with musics, but she vouchsafes no notice.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 17)
The exile of her minion is too new; She hath not yet forgot him.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 18)
Some more time Must wear the print of his remembrance on 't, And then she's yours.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 19)
You are most bound to th' King, Who lets go by no vantages that may Prefer you to his daughter.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 20)
Frame yourself To orderly solicits and be friended With aptness of the season.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 21)
Make denials Increase your services. So seem as if You were inspired to do those duties which You tender to her; that you in all obey her, Save when command to your dismission tends, And therein you are senseless.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 22)
Senseless? Not so.      So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome; The one is Caius Lucius.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 23)
worthy fellow, Albeit he comes on angry purpose now.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 24)
But that's no fault of his. We must receive him According to the honor of his sender, And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us, We must extend our notice.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 25)
--Our dear son, When you have given good morning to your mistress, Attend the Queen and us.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 26)
We shall have need employ you towards this Roman.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 27)
--Come, our queen.     If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not, Let her lie still and dream.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 28)
By your leave, ho!-- know her women are about her.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 29)
What If do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold Which buys admittance--oft it doth--yea, and makes Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up Their deer to th' stand o' th' stealer; and 'tis gold Which makes the true man killed and saves the thief, Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 30)
What Can it not do and undo? will make One of her women lawyer to me, for yet not understand the case myself.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 31)
By your leave.      Who's there that knocks?  gentleman.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 32)
No more?   Yes, and a gentlewoman's son.  That's more Than some whose tailors are as dear as yours Can justly boast of.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 33)
What's your Lordship's pleasure?   Your lady's person.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 34)
Is she ready?  Ay, To keep her chamber.  There is gold for you.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 35)
Sell me your good report.   How, my good name? Or to report of you What shall think is good?(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 36)
The Princess.    Good morrow, fairest sister. Your sweet hand.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 37)
Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains For purchasing but trouble.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 38)
The thanks give Is telling you that am poor of thanks And scarce can spare them.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 39)
Still swear love you.   If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 40)
If you swear still, your recompense is still That regard it not.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 41)
This is no answer.   But that you shall not say yield being silent, would not speak.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 42)
pray you, spare me. Faith, shall unfold equal discourtesy To your best kindness.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 43)
One of your great knowing Should learn, being taught, forbearance.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 44)
To leave you in your madness 'twere my sin. will not.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 45)
Fools are not mad folks.  Do you call me fool?  As am mad, do.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 46)
If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad. That cures us both.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 47)
am much sorry, sir, You put me to forget a lady's manners By being so verbal; and learn now for all That which know my heart, do here pronounce, By th' very truth of it, care not for you, And am so near the lack of charity To accuse myself hate you--which had rather You felt than make 't my boast.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 48)
You sin against Obedience, which you owe your father.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 49)
For The contract you pretend with that base wretch-- One bred of alms and fostered with cold dishes, With scraps o' th' court--it is no contract, none; And though it be allowed in meaner parties-- Yet who than he more mean?(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 50)
--to knit their souls, On whom there is no more dependency But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot; Yet you are curbed from that enlargement by The consequence o' th' crown, and must not foil The precious note of it with a base slave, hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth, pantler--not so eminent.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 51)
Profane fellow, Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more But what thou art besides, thou wert too base To be his groom.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 52)
Thou wert dignified enough, Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made Comparative for your virtues to be styled The under-hangman of his kingdom and hated For being preferred so well.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 53)
The south fog rot him!   He never can meet more mischance than come To be but named of thee.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 54)
His mean'st garment That ever hath but clipped his body is dearer In my respect than all the hairs above thee, Were they all made such men.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 55)
--How now, Pisanio!     "His garment"? Now the devil--   To Dorothy, my woman, hie thee presently.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 56)
"His garment"?  am sprighted with a fool, Frighted and angered worse.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 57)
Go bid my woman Search for a jewel that too casually Hath left mine arm.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 58)
It was thy master's. Shrew me If would lose it for a revenue Of any king's in Europe.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 59)
do think saw 't this morning. Confident am Last night 'twas on mine arm; kissed it.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 60)
hope it be not gone to tell my lord That kiss aught but he.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 61)
'Twill not be lost.   hope so. Go and search.  You have abused me.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 62)
"His meanest garment"?  Ay, said so, sir. If you will make 't an action, call witness to 't.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 63)
will inform your father.  Your mother too. She's my good lady and will conceive, hope, But the worst of me.(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 64)
So leave you, sir, To th' worst of discontent.   I'll be revenged!(Cymbeline, Act 2, Scene 65)
Fear it not, sir. would were so sure To win the King as am bold her honor Will remain hers.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 0)
What means do you make to him?   Not any, but abide the change of time, Quake in the present winter's state, and wish That warmer days would come.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 1)
In these feared hopes barely gratify your love; they failing, must die much your debtor.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 2)
Your very goodness and your company O'erpays all can do.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 3)
By this, your king Hath heard of great Augustus. Caius Lucius Will do 's commission throughly.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 4)
And think He'll grant the tribute, send th' arrearages, Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance Is yet fresh in their grief.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 5)
do believe, Statist though am none nor like to be, That this will prove a war; and you shall hear The legion now in Gallia sooner landed In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings Of any penny tribute paid.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 6)
Our countrymen Are men more ordered than when Julius Caesar Smiled at their lack of skill but found their courage Worthy his frowning at.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 7)
Their discipline, Now winged with their courages, will make known To their approvers they are people such That mend upon the world.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 8)
See, Iachimo!   The swiftest harts have posted you by land, And winds of all the corners kissed your sails To make your vessel nimble.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 9)
Welcome, sir.   hope the briefness of your answer made The speediness of your return.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 10)
Your lady Is one of the fairest that have looked upon.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 11)
And therewithal the best, or let her beauty Look thorough a casement to allure false hearts And be false with them.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 12)
Here are letters for you.   Their tenor good, trust.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 13)
'Tis very like.    Was Caius Lucius in the Briton court When you were there?(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 14)
He was expected then, but not approached.  All is well yet.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 15)
Sparkles this stone as it was wont, or is 't not Too dull for your good wearing?(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 16)
If have lost it, should have lost the worth of it in gold.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 17)
I'll make a journey twice as far t' enjoy second night of such sweet shortness which Was mine in Britain, for the ring is won.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 18)
The stone's too hard to come by.  Not a whit, Your lady being so easy.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 19)
Make not, sir, Your loss your sport. hope you know that we Must not continue friends.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 20)
Good sir, we must, If you keep covenant. Had not brought The knowledge of your mistress home, grant We were to question farther; but now Profess myself the winner of her honor, Together with your ring, and not the wronger Of her or you, having proceeded but By both your wills.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 21)
If you can make 't apparent That you have tasted her in bed, my hand And ring is yours.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 22)
If not, the foul opinion You had of her pure honor gains or loses Your sword or mine, or masterless leave both To who shall find them.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 23)
Sir, my circumstances, Being so near the truth as will make them, Must first induce you to believe; whose strength will confirm with oath, which doubt not You'll give me leave to spare when you shall find You need it not.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 24)
Proceed.  First, her bedchamber-- Where confess slept not, but profess Had that was well worth watching--it was hanged With tapestry of silk and silver, the story Proud Cleopatra when she met her Roman And Cydnus swelled above the banks, or for The press of boats or pride.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 25)
piece of work So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive In workmanship and value, which wondered Could be so rarely and exactly wrought Since the true life on 't was--  This is true, And this you might have heard of here, by me Or by some other.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 26)
More particulars Must justify my knowledge.  So they must, Or do your honor injury.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 27)
The chimney Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece Chaste Dian bathing.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 28)
Never saw figures So likely to report themselves; the cutter Was as another Nature, dumb, outwent her, Motion and breath left out.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 29)
This is a thing Which you might from relation likewise reap, Being, as it is, much spoke of.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 30)
The roof o' th' chamber With golden cherubins is fretted.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 31)
Her andirons-- had forgot them--were two winking Cupids Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely Depending on their brands.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 32)
This is her honor? Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise Be given to your remembrance--the description Of what is in her chamber nothing saves The wager you have laid.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 33)
Then if you can Be pale, beg but leave to air this jewel.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 34)
See--  And now 'tis up again. It must be married To that your diamond.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 35)
I'll keep them.  Jove! Once more let me behold it.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 36)
Is it that Which left with her?  Sir, thank her, that.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 37)
She stripped it from her arm. see her yet. Her pretty action did outsell her gift And yet enriched it too.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 38)
She gave it me And said she prized it once.  Maybe she plucked it off To send it me.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 39)
She writes so to you, doth she?   no, no, no, 'tis true.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 40)
Here, take this too.  It is a basilisk unto mine eye, Kills me to look on 't.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 41)
Let there be no honor Where there is beauty, truth where semblance, love Where there's another man.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 42)
The vows of women Of no more bondage be to where they are made Than they are to their virtues, which is nothing.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 43)
above measure false!  Have patience, sir, And take your ring again.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 44)
'Tis not yet won. It may be probable she lost it; or Who knows if one her women, being corrupted, Hath stol'n it from her.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 45)
Very true, And so hope he came by 't.--Back, my ring!(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 46)
Render to me some corporal sign about her More evident than this, for this was stol'n.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 47)
By Jupiter, had it from her arm.   Hark you, he swears!(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 48)
By Jupiter he swears. 'Tis true--nay, keep the ring--'tis true.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 49)
am sure She would not lose it. Her attendants are All sworn and honorable.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 50)
They induced to steal it? And by a stranger? No, he hath enjoyed her.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 51)
The cognizance of her incontinency Is this. She hath bought the name of whore thus dearly.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 52)
There, take thy hire, and all the fiends of hell Divide themselves between you!(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 53)
Sir, be patient. This is not strong enough to be believed Of one persuaded well of.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 54)
Never talk on 't. She hath been colted by him.  If you seek For further satisfying, under her breast, Worthy the pressing, lies a mole, right proud Of that most delicate lodging.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 55)
By my life, kissed it, and it gave me present hunger To feed again, though full.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 56)
You do remember This stain upon her?  Ay, and it doth confirm Another stain as big as hell can hold, Were there no more but it.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 57)
Will you hear more?  Spare your arithmetic; Never count the turns.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 58)
Once, and a million!  I'll be sworn--  No swearing.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 59)
If you will swear you have not done 't, you lie, And will kill thee if thou dost deny Thou 'st made me cuckold.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 60)
I'll deny nothing.   that had her here, to tear her limb-meal!(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 61)
will go there and do 't i' th' court, before Her father.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 62)
I'll do something.  Quite beside The government of patience.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 63)
You have won. Let's follow him and pervert the present wrath He hath against himself.(Cymbeline, Act 3, Scene 64)
Is there no way for men to be, but women Must be half-workers?(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 0)
We are all bastards, And that most venerable man which Did call my father was know not where When was stamped.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 1)
Some coiner with his tools Made me a counterfeit; yet my mother seemed The Dian of that time; so doth my wife The nonpareil of this.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 2)
vengeance, vengeance! Me of my lawful pleasure she restrained And prayed me oft forbearance; did it with pudency so rosy the sweet view on 't Might well have warmed old Saturn, that thought her As chaste as unsunned snow.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 3)
all the devils! This yellow Iachimo in an hour, was 't not?(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 4)
Or less? At first? Perchance he spoke not, but, Like a full-acorned boar, a German one, Cried and mounted; found no opposition But what he looked for should oppose and she Should from encounter guard.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 5)
Could find out The woman's part in me--for there's no motion That tends to vice in man but affirm It is the woman's part: be it lying, note it, The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers; Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers; Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain, Nice longing, slanders, mutability, All faults that have a name, nay, that hell knows, Why, hers, in part or all, but rather all.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 6)
For even to vice They are not constant, but are changing still One vice but of a minute old for one Not half so old as that.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 7)
I'll write against them, Detest them, curse them.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 8)
Yet 'tis greater skill In a true hate to pray they have their will; The very devils cannot plague them better.(Cymbeline, Act 4, Scene 9)
Neither my husband nor the slave returned That in such haste sent to seek his master?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 0)
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.   Perhaps some merchant hath invited him, And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 1)
Good sister, let us dine, and never fret. man is master of his liberty; Time is their master, and when they see time They'll go or come.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 2)
If so, be patient, sister.   Why should their liberty than ours be more?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 3)
Because their business still lies out o' door.   Look when serve him so, he takes it ill.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 4)
know he is the bridle of your will.   There's none but asses will be bridled so.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 5)
Why, headstrong liberty is lashed with woe. There's nothing situate under heaven's eye But hath his bound in earth, in sea, in sky.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 6)
The beasts, the fishes, and the winged fowls Are their males' subjects and at their controls.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 7)
Man, more divine, the master of all these, Lord of the wide world and wild wat'ry seas, Endued with intellectual sense and souls, Of more preeminence than fish and fowls, Are masters to their females, and their lords.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 8)
Then let your will attend on their accords.   This servitude makes you to keep unwed.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 9)
Not this, but troubles of the marriage bed.   But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 10)
Ere learn love, I'll practice to obey.   How if your husband start some otherwhere?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 11)
Till he come home again, would forbear.   Patience unmoved!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 12)
No marvel though she pause; They can be meek that have no other cause.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 13)
wretched soul bruised with adversity We bid be quiet when we hear it cry, But were we burdened with like weight of pain, As much or more we should ourselves complain.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 14)
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee, With urging helpless patience would relieve me; But if thou live to see like right bereft, This fool-begged patience in thee will be left.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 15)
Well, will marry one day, but to try. Here comes your man.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 16)
Now is your husband nigh.      Say, is your tardy master now at hand?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 17)
Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears can witness.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 18)
Say, didst thou speak with him? Know'st thou his mind?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 19)
Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear. Beshrew his hand, scarce could understand it.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 20)
Spake he so doubtfully thou couldst not feel his meaning?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 21)
Nay, he struck so plainly could too well feel his blows, and withal so doubtfully that could scarce understand them.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 22)
But say, prithee, is he coming home? It seems he hath great care to please his wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 23)
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn mad.   Horn mad, thou villain?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 24)
mean not cuckold mad, But sure he is stark mad. When desired him to come home to dinner, He asked me for a thousand marks in gold.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 25)
"'Tis dinnertime," quoth "My gold," quoth he. "Your meat doth burn," quoth "My gold," quoth he.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 26)
"Will you come?" quoth "My gold," quoth he. "Where is the thousand marks gave thee, villain?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 27)
" "The pig," quoth "is burned." "My gold," quoth he.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 28)
"My mistress, sir," quoth "Hang up thy mistress! know not thy mistress.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 29)
Out on thy mistress!"  Quoth who?  Quoth my master.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 30)
know," quoth he, "no house, no wife, no mistress.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 31)
" So that my errand, due unto my tongue, thank him, bare home upon my shoulders, For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 32)
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.   Go back again and be new beaten home?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 33)
For God's sake, send some other messenger.   Back, slave, or will break thy pate across.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 34)
And he will bless that cross with other beating.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 35)
Between you, shall have a holy head.   Hence, prating peasant.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 36)
Fetch thy master home.   Am so round with you as you with me, That like a football you do spurn me thus?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 37)
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither. If last in this service, you must case me in leather.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 38)
Fie, how impatience loureth in your face.   His company must do his minions grace, Whilst at home starve for a merry look.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 39)
Hath homely age th' alluring beauty took From my poor cheek?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 40)
Then he hath wasted it. Are my discourses dull? Barren my wit?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 41)
If voluble and sharp discourse be marred, Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 42)
Do their gay vestments his affections bait? That's not my fault; he's master of my state.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 43)
What ruins are in me that can be found By him not ruined?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 44)
Then is he the ground Of my defeatures. My decayed fair sunny look of his would soon repair.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 45)
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale And feeds from home.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 46)
Poor am but his stale.   Self-harming jealousy, fie, beat it hence.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 47)
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense. know his eye doth homage otherwhere, Or else what lets it but he would be here?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 48)
Sister, you know he promised me a chain. Would that alone o' love he would detain, So he would keep fair quarter with his bed.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 49)
see the jewel best enameled Will lose his beauty.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 50)
Yet the gold bides still That others touch, and often touching will Wear gold; yet no man that hath a name By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 51)
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye, I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 0, Scene 52)
2        The gold gave to Dromio is laid up Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave Is wandered forth in care to seek me out.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 0)
By computation and mine host's report, could not speak with Dromio since at first sent him from the mart.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 1)
See, here he comes.    How now, sir? Is your merry humor altered?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 2)
As you love strokes, so jest with me again. You know no Centaur?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 3)
You received no gold? Your mistress sent to have me home to dinner?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 4)
My house was at the Phoenix? Wast thou mad, That thus so madly thou didst answer me?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 5)
What answer, sir? When spake such a word?   Even now, even here, not half an hour since.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 6)
did not see you since you sent me hence, Home to the Centaur with the gold you gave me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 7)
Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner, For which hope thou felt'st was displeased.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 8)
am glad to see you in this merry vein. What means this jest, pray you, master, tell me?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 9)
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth? Think'st thou jest?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 10)
Hold, take thou that and that.    Hold, sir, for God's sake!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 11)
Now your jest is earnest. Upon what bargain do you give it me?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 12)
Because that familiarly sometimes Do use you for my fool and chat with you, Your sauciness will jest upon my love And make a common of my serious hours.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 13)
When the sun shines, let foolish gnats make sport, But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 14)
If you will jest with me, know my aspect, And fashion your demeanor to my looks, Or will beat this method in your sconce.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 15)
"Sconce" call you it? So you would leave battering, had rather have it a "head.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 16)
" An you use these blows long, must get a sconce for my head and ensconce it too, or else shall seek my wit in my shoulders.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 17)
But pray, sir, why am beaten?  Dost thou not know?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 18)
Nothing, sir, but that am beaten.  Shall tell you why?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 19)
Ay, sir, and wherefore, for they say every why hath a wherefore.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 20)
"Why" first: for flouting me; and then "wherefore": for urging it the second time to me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 21)
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season, When in the "why" and the "wherefore" is neither rhyme nor reason?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 22)
Well, sir, thank you.  Thank me, sir, for what?  Marry, sir, for this something that you gave me for nothing.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 23)
I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for something.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 24)
But say, sir, is it dinnertime?  No, sir, think the meat wants that have.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 25)
In good time, sir, what's that?  Basting.  Well, sir, then 'twill be dry.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 26)
If it be, sir, pray you eat none of it.  Your reason?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 27)
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another dry basting.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 28)
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time. There's a time for all things.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 29)
durst have denied that before you were so choleric.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 30)
By what rule, sir?  Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald pate of Father Time himself.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 31)
Let's hear it.  There's no time for a man to recover his hair that grows bald by nature.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 32)
May he not do it by fine and recovery?  Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig, and recover the lost hair of another man.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 33)
Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is, so plentiful an excrement?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 34)
Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts, and what he hath scanted men in hair, he hath given them in wit.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 35)
Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 36)
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 37)
Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 38)
The plainer dealer, the sooner lost. Yet he loseth it in a kind of jollity.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 39)
For what reason?  For two, and sound ones too.  Nay, not sound, pray you.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 40)
Sure ones, then.  Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 41)
Certain ones, then.  Name them.  The one, to save the money that he spends in tiring; the other, that at dinner they should not drop in his porridge.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 42)
You would all this time have proved there is no time for all things.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 43)
Marry, and did, sir: namely, e'en no time to recover hair lost by nature.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 44)
But your reason was not substantial why there is no time to recover.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 45)
Thus mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore, to the world's end, will have bald followers.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 46)
knew 'twould be a bald conclusion. But soft, who wafts us yonder?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 47)
Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown. Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 48)
am not Adriana, nor thy wife. The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow That never words were music to thine ear, That never object pleasing in thine eye, That never touch well welcome to thy hand, That never meat sweet-savored in thy taste, Unless spake, or looked, or touched, or carved to thee.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 49)
How comes it now, my husband, how comes it That thou art then estranged from thyself?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 50)
"Thyself" call it, being strange to me, That, undividable, incorporate, Am better than thy dear self's better part.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 51)
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me! For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall drop of water in the breaking gulf, And take unmingled thence that drop again Without addition or diminishing, As take from me thyself and not me too.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 52)
How dearly would it touch thee to the quick, Shouldst thou but hear were licentious And that this body, consecrate to thee, By ruffian lust should be contaminate!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 53)
Wouldst thou not spit at me, and spurn at me, And hurl the name of husband in my face, And tear the stained skin off my harlot brow, And from my false hand cut the wedding ring, And break it with a deep-divorcing vow?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 54)
know thou canst, and therefore see thou do it. am possessed with an adulterate blot; My blood is mingled with the crime of lust; For if we two be one, and thou play false, do digest the poison of thy flesh, Being strumpeted by thy contagion.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 55)
Keep then fair league and truce with thy true bed, live distained, thou undishonored.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 56)
Plead you to me, fair dame? know you not. In Ephesus am but two hours old, As strange unto your town as to your talk, Who, every word by all my wit being scanned, Wants wit in all one word to understand.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 57)
Fie, brother, how the world is changed with you!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 58)
When were you wont to use my sister thus? She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 59)
By Dromio?  By me?   By thee; and this thou didst return from him: That he did buffet thee and, in his blows, Denied my house for his, me for his wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 60)
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman? What is the course and drift of your compact?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 61)
sir? never saw her till this time.   Villain, thou liest, for even her very words Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 62)
never spake with her in all my life.   How can she thus then call us by our names-- Unless it be by inspiration?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 63)
How ill agrees it with your gravity To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave, Abetting him to thwart me in my mood.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 64)
Be it my wrong you are from me exempt, But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 65)
Come, will fasten on this sleeve of thine.  Thou art an elm, my husband, a vine, Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state, Makes me with thy strength to communicate.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 66)
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross, Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss, Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 67)
To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme. What, was married to her in my dream?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 68)
Or sleep now and think hear all this? What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 69)
Until know this sure uncertainty I'll entertain the offered fallacy.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 70)
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.   for my beads!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 71)
cross me for a sinner.  This is the fairy land. spite of spites!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 72)
We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites. If we obey them not, this will ensue: They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 73)
Why prat'st thou to thyself and answer'st not? Dromio--thou, Dromio--thou snail, thou slug, thou sot.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 74)
am transformed, master, am not?   think thou art in mind, and so am   Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 75)
Thou hast thine own form.  No, am an ape.   If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 76)
'Tis true. She rides me, and long for grass. 'Tis so.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 77)
am an ass; else it could never be But should know her as well as she knows me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 78)
Come, come, no longer will be a fool, To put the finger in the eye and weep Whilst man and master laughs my woes to scorn.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 79)
Come, sir, to dinner.--Dromio, keep the gate.-- Husband, I'll dine above with you today, And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 80)
Sirrah, if any ask you for your master, Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 81)
-- Come, sister.--Dromio, play the porter well.   Am in Earth, in heaven, or in hell?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 82)
Sleeping or waking, mad or well-advised? Known unto these, and to myself disguised!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 83)
I'll say as they say, and persever so, And in this mist at all adventures go.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 84)
Master, shall be porter at the gate?   Ay, and let none enter, lest break your pate.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 1, Scene 85)
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all; My wife is shrewish when keep not hours.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 0)
Say that lingered with you at your shop To see the making of her carcanet, And that tomorrow you will bring it home.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 1)
But here's a villain that would face me down He met me on the mart, and that beat him And charged him with a thousand marks in gold, And that did deny my wife and house.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 2)
-- Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 3)
Say what you will, sir, but know what know. That you beat me at the mart have your hand to show; If the skin were parchment and the blows you gave were ink, Your own handwriting would tell you what think.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 4)
think thou art an ass.  Marry, so it doth appear By the wrongs suffer and the blows bear.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 5)
should kick being kicked and, being at that pass, You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 6)
You're sad, Signior Balthasar. Pray God our cheer May answer my goodwill and your good welcome here.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 7)
hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your welcome dear.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 8)
Signior Balthasar, either at flesh or fish table full of welcome makes scarce one dainty dish.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 9)
Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 10)
And welcome more common, for that's nothing but words.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 11)
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 12)
Ay, to a niggardly host and more sparing guest.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 13)
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 14)
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 15)
But soft! My door is locked.  Go, bid them let us in.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 16)
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Ciceley, Gillian, Ginn!   Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb, idiot, patch!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 17)
Either get thee from the door or sit down at the hatch.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 18)
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st for such store When one is one too many?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 19)
Go, get thee from the door.   What patch is made our porter?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 20)
My master stays in the street.   Let him walk from whence he came, lest he catch cold on 's feet.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 21)
Who talks within there? Ho, open the door.   Right, sir, I'll tell you when an you'll tell me wherefore.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 22)
Wherefore? For my dinner. have not dined today.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 23)
Nor today here you must not. Come again when you may.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 24)
What art thou that keep'st me out from the house owe?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 25)
The porter for this time, sir, and my name is Dromio.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 26)
villain, thou hast stolen both mine office and my name!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 27)
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 28)
If thou hadst been Dromio today in my place, Thou wouldst have changed thy face for a name, or thy name for an ass.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 29)
What a coil is there, Dromio! Who are those at the gate?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 30)
Let my master in, Luce.  Faith, no, he comes too late, And so tell your master.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 31)
Lord, must laugh. Have at you with a proverb: shall set in my staff?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 32)
Have at you with another: that's--When, can you tell?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 33)
If thy name be called "Luce," Luce, thou hast answered him well.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 34)
Do you hear, you minion? You'll let us in, hope?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 35)
thought to have asked you.  And you said no.   So, come help.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 36)
Well struck! There was blow for blow.   Thou baggage, let me in.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 37)
Can you tell for whose sake?   Master, knock the door hard.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 38)
Let him knock till it ache.   You'll cry for this, minion, if beat the door down.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 39)
What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 40)
Who is that at the door that keeps all this noise?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 41)
By my troth, your town is troubled with unruly boys.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 42)
Are you there, wife? You might have come before.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 43)
Your wife, sir knave? Go, get you from the door.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 44)
If you went in pain, master, this knave would go sore.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 45)
Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome. We would fain have either.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 46)
In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 47)
They stand at the door, master. Bid them welcome hither.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 48)
There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 49)
You would say so, master, if your garments were thin.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 50)
Your cake here is warm within; you stand here in the cold.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 51)
It would make a man mad as a buck to be so bought and sold.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 52)
Go, fetch me something. I'll break ope the gate.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 53)
Break any breaking here, and I'll break your knave's pate.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 54)
man may break a word with you, sir, and words are but wind, Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 55)
It seems thou want'st breaking. Out upon thee, hind!(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 56)
Here's too much "Out upon thee!" pray thee, let me in.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 57)
Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 58)
Well, I'll break in. Go, borrow me a crow.   crow without feather?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 59)
Master, mean you so? For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 60)
-- If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 61)
Go, get thee gone. Fetch me an iron crow.   Have patience, sir.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 62)
let it not be so. Herein you war against your reputation, And draw within the compass of suspect Th' unviolated honor of your wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 63)
Once this: your long experience of her wisdom, Her sober virtue, years, and modesty Plead on her part some cause to you unknown.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 64)
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse Why at this time the doors are made against you.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 65)
Be ruled by me; depart in patience, And let us to the Tiger all to dinner, And about evening come yourself alone To know the reason of this strange restraint.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 66)
If by strong hand you offer to break in Now in the stirring passage of the day, vulgar comment will be made of it; And that supposed by the common rout Against your yet ungalled estimation That may with foul intrusion enter in And dwell upon your grave when you are dead; For slander lives upon succession, Forever housed where it gets possession.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 67)
You have prevailed. will depart in quiet And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 68)
know a wench of excellent discourse, Pretty and witty, wild and yet, too, gentle.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 69)
There will we dine. This woman that mean, My wife--but, protest, without desert-- Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal; To her will we to dinner.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 70)
Get you home And fetch the chain; by this, know, 'tis made.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 71)
Bring it, pray you, to the Porpentine, For there's the house.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 72)
That chain will bestow-- Be it for nothing but to spite my wife-- Upon mine hostess there.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 73)
Good sir, make haste. Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me, I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 74)
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.   Do so.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 11, Scene 75)
3        And may it be that you have quite forgot husband's office?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 0)
Shall, Antipholus, Even in the spring of love thy love-springs rot?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 1)
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous? If you did wed my sister for her wealth, Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 2)
Or if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth -- Muffle your false love with some show of blindness.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 3)
Let not my sister read it in your eye; Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator; Look sweet, speak fair, become disloyalty; Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 4)
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 5)
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint. Be secret-false.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 6)
What need she be acquainted? What simple thief brags of his own attaint?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 7)
'Tis double wrong to truant with your bed And let her read it in thy looks at board.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 8)
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed; Ill deeds is doubled with an evil word.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 9)
Alas, poor women, make us but believe, Being compact of credit, that you love us.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 10)
Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve; We in your motion turn, and you may move us.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 11)
Then, gentle brother, get you in again. Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 12)
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 13)
Sweet mistress--what your name is else know not, Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine-- Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not Than our Earth's wonder, more than Earth divine.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 14)
Teach me, dear creature, how to think and speak. Lay open to my earthy gross conceit, Smothered in errors, feeble, shallow, weak, The folded meaning of your words' deceit.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 15)
Against my soul's pure truth why labor you To make it wander in an unknown field?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 16)
Are you a god? Would you create me new? Transform me, then, and to your power I'll yield.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 17)
But if that am then well know Your weeping sister is no wife of mine, Nor to her bed no homage do owe.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 18)
Far more, far more, to you do decline. train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 19)
Sing, Siren, for thyself, and will dote. Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs, And as a bed I'll take them and there lie, And in that glorious supposition think He gains by death that hath such means to die.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 20)
Let love, being light, be drowned if she sink.   What, are you mad that you do reason so?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 21)
Not mad, but mated--how, do not know.   It is a fault that springeth from your eye.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 22)
For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.   Gaze when you should, and that will clear your sight.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 23)
As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.   Why call you me "love"?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 24)
Call my sister so.   Thy sister's sister.  That's my sister.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 25)
No, It is thyself, mine own self's better part, Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart, My food, my fortune, and my sweet hope's aim, My sole Earth's heaven, and my heaven's claim.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 26)
All this my sister is, or else should be.   Call thyself "sister," sweet, for am thee.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 27)
Thee will love, and with thee lead my life; Thou hast no husband yet, nor no wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 28)
Give me thy hand.  soft, sir. Hold you still. I'll fetch my sister to get her goodwill.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 29)
Why, how now, Dromio. Where runn'st thou so fast?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 30)
Do you know me, sir? Am Dromio? Am your man? Am myself?(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 31)
Thou art Dromio, thou art my man, thou art thyself.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 32)
am an ass, am a woman's man, and besides myself.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 33)
What woman's man? And how besides thyself?  Marry, sir, besides myself am due to a woman, one that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 34)
What claim lays she to thee?  Marry, sir, such claim as you would lay to your horse, and she would have me as a beast; not that being a beast she would have me, but that she, being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 35)
What is she?  very reverend body, ay, such a one as a man may not speak of without he say "sir-reverence.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 36)
" have but lean luck in the match, and yet is she a wondrous fat marriage.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 37)
How dost thou mean a "fat marriage"?  Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench, and all grease, and know not what use to put her to but to make a lamp of her and run from her by her own light.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 38)
warrant her rags and the tallow in them will burn a Poland winter.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 39)
If she lives till doomsday, she'll burn a week longer than the whole world.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 40)
What complexion is she of?  Swart like my shoe, but her face nothing like so clean kept.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 41)
For why? She sweats. man may go overshoes in the grime of it.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 42)
That's a fault that water will mend.  No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 43)
What's her name?  Nell, sir, but her name and three quarters--that's an ell and three quarters-- will not measure her from hip to hip.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 44)
Then she bears some breadth?  No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 45)
She is spherical, like a globe. could find out countries in her.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 46)
In what part of her body stands Ireland?  Marry, sir, in her buttocks.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 47)
found it out by the bogs.  Where Scotland?  found it by the barrenness, hard in the palm of the hand.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 48)
Where France?  In her forehead, armed and reverted, making war against her heir.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 49)
Where England?  looked for the chalky cliffs, but could find no whiteness in them.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 50)
But guess it stood in her chin, by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 51)
Where Spain?  Faith, saw it not, but felt it hot in her breath.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 52)
Where America, the Indies?  sir, upon her nose, all o'erembellished with rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich aspect to the hot breath of Spain, who sent whole armadas of carracks to be ballast at her nose.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 53)
Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?  sir, did not look so low.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 54)
To conclude: this drudge or diviner laid claim to me, called me Dromio, swore was assured to her, told me what privy marks had about me, as the mark of my shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my left arm, that amazed, ran from her as a witch.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 55)
And, think, if my breast had not been made of faith, and my heart of steel, She had transformed me to a curtal dog and made me turn i' th' wheel.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 56)
Go, hie thee presently. Post to the road. An if the wind blow any way from shore, will not harbor in this town tonight.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 57)
If any bark put forth, come to the mart, Where will walk till thou return to me.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 58)
If everyone knows us, and we know none, 'Tis time, think, to trudge, pack, and be gone.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 59)
As from a bear a man would run for life, So fly from her that would be my wife.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 60)
There's none but witches do inhabit here, And therefore 'tis high time that were hence.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 61)
She that doth call me husband, even my soul Doth for a wife abhor.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 62)
But her fair sister, Possessed with such a gentle sovereign grace, Of such enchanting presence and discourse, Hath almost made me traitor to myself.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 63)
But lest myself be guilty to self wrong, I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 64)
Master Antipholus.  Ay, that's my name.   know it well, sir.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 65)
Lo, here's the chain. thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine; The chain unfinished made me stay thus long.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 66)
What is your will that shall do with this?   What please yourself, sir.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 67)
have made it for you.   Made it for me, sir? bespoke it not.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 68)
Not once, nor twice, but twenty times you have.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 69)
Go home with it, and please your wife withal, And soon at supper time I'll visit you And then receive my money for the chain.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 70)
pray you, sir, receive the money now, For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 71)
You are a merry man, sir. Fare you well.   What should think of this cannot tell, But this think: there's no man is so vain That would refuse so fair an offered chain.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 72)
see a man here needs not live by shifts When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 73)
I'll to the mart, and there for Dromio stay. If any ship put out, then straight away.(The Comedy of Errors, Act 12, Scene 74)
Well met, Corporal Nym.  Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 0)
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?  For my part, care not.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 1)
say little, but when time shall serve, there shall be smiles; but that shall be as it may.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 2)
dare not fight, but will wink and hold out mine iron.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 3)
It is a simple one, but what though? It will toast cheese, and it will endure cold as another man's sword will, and there's an end.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 4)
will bestow a breakfast to make you friends, and we'll be all three sworn brothers to France.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 5)
Let 't be so, good Corporal Nym.  Faith, will live so long as may, that's the certain of it; and when cannot live any longer, will do as may.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 6)
That is my rest, that is the rendezvous of it.  It is certain, corporal, that he is married to Nell Quickly, and certainly she did you wrong, for you were troth-plight to her.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 7)
cannot tell. Things must be as they may. Men may sleep, and they may have their throats about them at that time, and some say knives have edges.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 8)
It must be as it may. Though patience be a tired mare, yet she will plod.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 9)
There must be conclusions. Well, cannot tell.     Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 10)
Good corporal, be patient here.--How now, mine host Pistol?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 11)
Base tyke, call'st thou me host? Now, by this hand, swear scorn the term, nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 12)
No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live honestly by the prick of their needles but it will be thought we keep a bawdy house straight.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 13)
well-a-day, Lady! If he be not hewn now, we shall see willful adultery and murder committed.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 14)
Good lieutenant, good corporal, offer nothing here.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 15)
Pish!  Pish for thee, Iceland dog, thou prick-eared cur of Iceland!(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 16)
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valor, and put up your sword.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 17)
Will you shog off?  would have you solus.  "Solus, egregious dog?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 18)
viper vile, the solus in thy most marvelous face, the solus in thy teeth and in thy throat and in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy, and, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 19)
do retort the solus in thy bowels, for can take, and Pistol's cock is up, and flashing fire will follow.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 20)
am not Barbason, you cannot conjure me. have an humor to knock you indifferently well.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 21)
If you grow foul with me, Pistol, will scour you with my rapier, as may, in fair terms.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 22)
If you would walk off, would prick your guts a little in good terms, as may, and that's the humor of it.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 23)
braggart vile and damned furious wight, The grave doth gape, and doting death is near.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 24)
Therefore exhale.  Hear me, hear me what say: he that strikes the first stroke, I'll run him up to the hilts, as am a soldier.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 25)
An oath of mickle might, and fury shall abate.   Give me thy fist, thy forefoot to me give.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 26)
Thy spirits are most tall.  will cut thy throat one time or other in fair terms, that is the humor of it.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 27)
Couple a gorge, that is the word. defy thee again.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 28)
hound of Crete, think'st thou my spouse to get? No, to the spital go, and from the powd'ring tub of infamy fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind, Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 29)
have, and will hold, the quondam Quickly for the only she: and pauca, there's enough too!(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 30)
Go to.     Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and your hostess.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 31)
He is very sick and would to bed.--Good Bardolph, put thy face between his sheets, and do the office of a warming-pan.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 32)
Faith, he's very ill.  Away, you rogue!  By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of these days.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 33)
The King has killed his heart. Good husband, come home presently.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 34)
Come, shall make you two friends? We must to France together.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 35)
Why the devil should we keep knives to cut one another's throats?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 36)
Let floods o'erswell and fiends for food howl on!(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 37)
You'll pay me the eight shillings won of you at betting?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 38)
Base is the slave that pays.  That now will have, that's the humor of it.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 39)
As manhood shall compound. Push home.   By this sword, he that makes the first thrust, I'll kill him.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 40)
By this sword, will.  "Sword" is an oath, and oaths must have their course.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 41)
Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends; an thou wilt not, why then be enemies with me too.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 42)
Prithee, put up.  noble shalt thou have, and present pay, and liquor likewise will give to thee, and friendship shall combine, and brotherhood.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 43)
I'll live by Nym, and Nym shall live by me. Is not this just?(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 44)
For shall sutler be unto the camp, and profits will accrue.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 45)
Give me thy hand.  shall have my noble?  In cash, most justly paid.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 46)
Well, then, that's the humor of 't.      As ever you come of women, come in quickly to Sir John.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 47)
Ah, poor heart, he is so shaked of a burning quotidian-tertian that it is most lamentable to behold.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 48)
Sweet men, come to him.  The King hath run bad humors on the knight, that's the even of it.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 49)
Nym, thou hast spoke the right. His heart is fracted and corroborate.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 50)
The King is a good king, but it must be as it may; he passes some humors and careers.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 51)
Let us condole the knight, for, lambkins, we will live.(Henry V, Act 0, Scene 52)
2        Now all the youth of England are on fire, And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies; Now thrive the armorers, and honor's thought Reigns solely in the breast of every man.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 0)
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse, Following the mirror of all Christian kings With winged heels, as English Mercurys.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 1)
For now sits Expectation in the air And hides a sword, from hilts unto the point, With crowns imperial, crowns, and coronets Promised to Harry and his followers.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 2)
The French, advised by good intelligence Of this most dreadful preparation, Shake in their fear, and with pale policy Seek to divert the English purposes.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 3)
England, model to thy inward greatness, Like little body with a mighty heart, What might'st thou do, that honor would thee do, Were all thy children kind and natural!(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 4)
But see, thy fault France hath in thee found out, nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills With treacherous crowns, and three corrupted men-- One, Richard, Earl of Cambridge, and the second, Henry, Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third, Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland-- Have, for the gilt of France guilt indeed!(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 5)
), Confirmed conspiracy with fearful France, And by their hands this grace of kings must die, If hell and treason hold their promises, Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 6)
Linger your patience on, and we'll digest Th' abuse of distance, force a play.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 7)
The sum is paid, the traitors are agreed, The King is set from London, and the scene Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 8)
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit, And thence to France shall we convey you safe And bring you back, charming the narrow seas To give you gentle pass; for, if we may, We'll not offend one stomach with our play.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 9)
But, till the King come forth, and not till then, Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 10)
'Fore God, his Grace is bold to trust these traitors.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 11)
They shall be apprehended by and by.   How smooth and even they do bear themselves, As if allegiance in their bosoms sat Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 12)
The King hath note of all that they intend, By interception which they dream not of.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 13)
Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow, Whom he hath dulled and cloyed with gracious favors-- That he should, for a foreign purse, so sell His sovereign's life to death and treachery!(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 14)
Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 15)
-- My Lord of Cambridge, and my kind Lord of Masham, And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 16)
Think you not that the powers we bear with us Will cut their passage through the force of France, Doing the execution and the act For which we have in head assembled them?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 17)
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.   doubt not that, since we are well persuaded We carry not a heart with us from hence That grows not in a fair consent with ours, Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish Success and conquest to attend on us.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 18)
Never was monarch better feared and loved Than is your Majesty.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 19)
There's not, think, a subject That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness Under the sweet shade of your government.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 20)
True. Those that were your father's enemies Have steeped their galls in honey, and do serve you With hearts create of duty and of zeal.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 21)
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness, And shall forget the office of our hand Sooner than quittance of desert and merit According to the weight and worthiness.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 22)
So service shall with steeled sinews toil, And labor shall refresh itself with hope To do your Grace incessant services.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 23)
We judge no less.--Uncle of Exeter, Enlarge the man committed yesterday That railed against our person.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 24)
We consider It was excess of wine that set him on, And on his more advice we pardon him.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 25)
That's mercy, but too much security. Let him be punished, sovereign, lest example Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 26)
let us yet be merciful.   So may your Highness, and yet punish too.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 27)
Sir, you show great mercy if you give him life After the taste of much correction.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 28)
Alas, your too much love and care of me Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 29)
If little faults proceeding on distemper Shall not be winked at, how shall we stretch our eye When capital crimes, chewed, swallowed, and digested, Appear before us?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 30)
We'll yet enlarge that man, Though Cambridge, Scroop, and Grey, in their dear care And tender preservation of our person, Would have him punished.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 31)
And now to our French causes. Who are the late commissioners?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 32)
one, my lord. Your Highness bade me ask for it today.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 33)
So did you me, my liege.  And my royal sovereign.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 34)
Then Richard, Earl of Cambridge, there is yours-- There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 35)
--And, sir knight, Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 36)
-- Read them, and know know your worthiness.-- My Lord of Westmoreland and uncle Exeter, We will aboard tonight.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 37)
--Why how now, gentlemen? What see you in those papers, that you lose So much complexion?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 38)
--Look you, how they change. Their cheeks are paper.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 39)
--Why, what read you there That have so cowarded and chased your blood Out of appearance?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 40)
do confess my fault, And do submit me to your Highness' mercy.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 41)
To which we all appeal.   The mercy that was quick in us but late By your own counsel is suppressed and killed.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 42)
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy, For your own reasons turn into your bosoms As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 43)
-- See you, my princes and my noble peers, These English monsters.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 44)
My Lord of Cambridge here, You know how apt our love was to accord To furnish him with all appurtenants Belonging to his honor, and this man Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired And sworn unto the practices of France To kill us here in Hampton; to the which This knight, no less for bounty bound to us Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 45)
--But What shall say to thee, Lord Scroop, thou cruel, Ingrateful, savage, and inhuman creature?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 46)
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels, That knew'st the very bottom of my soul, That almost mightst have coined me into gold, Wouldst thou have practiced on me for thy use-- May it be possible that foreign hire Could out of thee extract one spark of evil That might annoy my finger?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 47)
'Tis so strange That, though the truth of it stands off as gross As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 48)
Treason and murder ever kept together, As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose, Working so grossly in a natural cause That admiration did not whoop at them.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 49)
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in Wonder to wait on treason and on murder, And whatsoever cunning fiend it was That wrought upon thee so preposterously Hath got the voice in hell for excellence.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 50)
All other devils that suggest by treasons Do botch and bungle up damnation With patches, colors, and with forms being fetched From glist'ring semblances of piety; But he that tempered thee bade thee stand up, Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason, Unless to dub thee with the name of traitor.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 51)
If that same demon that hath gulled thee thus Should with his lion gait walk the whole world, He might return to vasty Tartar back And tell the legions can never win soul so easy as that Englishman's.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 52)
" how hast thou with jealousy infected The sweetness of affiance!(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 53)
Show men dutiful? Why, so didst thou. Seem they grave and learned?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 54)
Why, so didst thou. Come they of noble family? Why, so didst thou.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 55)
Seem they religious? Why, so didst thou. Or are they spare in diet, Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger, Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood, Garnished and decked in modest complement, Not working with the eye without the ear, And but in purged judgment trusting neither?(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 56)
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem. And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot To mark the full-fraught man and best endued With some suspicion.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 57)
will weep for thee, For this revolt of thine methinks is like Another fall of man.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 58)
--Their faults are open. Arrest them to the answer of the law, And God acquit them of their practices.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 59)
arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Richard, Earl of Cambridge.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 60)
-- arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Henry, Lord Scroop of Masham.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 61)
-- arrest thee of high treason, by the name of Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 62)
Our purposes God justly hath discovered, And repent my fault more than my death, Which beseech your Highness to forgive, Although my body pay the price of it.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 63)
For me, the gold of France did not seduce, Although did admit it as a motive The sooner to effect what intended; But God be thanked for prevention, Which in sufferance heartily will rejoice, Beseeching God and you to pardon me.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 64)
Never did faithful subject more rejoice At the discovery of most dangerous treason Than do at this hour joy o'er myself, Prevented from a damned enterprise.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 65)
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.   God quit you in His mercy.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 66)
Hear your sentence: You have conspired against our royal person, Joined with an enemy proclaimed, and from his coffers Received the golden earnest of our death, Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter, His princes and his peers to servitude, His subjects to oppression and contempt, And his whole kingdom into desolation.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 67)
Touching our person, seek we no revenge, But we our kingdom's safety must so tender, Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws We do deliver you.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 68)
Get you therefore hence, Poor miserable wretches, to your death, The taste whereof God of His mercy give You patience to endure, and true repentance Of all your dear offenses.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 69)
--Bear them hence.  Now, lords, for France, the enterprise whereof Shall be to you as us, like glorious.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 70)
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war, Since God so graciously hath brought to light This dangerous treason lurking in our way To hinder our beginnings.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 71)
We doubt not now But every rub is smoothed on our way.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 72)
Then forth, dear countrymen. Let us deliver Our puissance into the hand of God, Putting it straight in expedition.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 73)
Cheerly to sea. The signs of war advance. No king of England if not king of France.(Henry V, Act 1, Scene 74)
Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to Staines.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 0)
No; for my manly heart doth earn.--Bardolph, be blithe.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 1)
--Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins.-- Boy, bristle thy courage up.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 2)
For Falstaff, he is dead, and we must earn therefore.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 3)
Would were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in heaven or in hell.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 4)
Nay, sure, he's not in hell! He's in Arthur's bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's bosom.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 5)
He made a finer end, and went away an it had been any christom child.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 6)
He parted ev'n just between twelve and one, ev'n at the turning o' th' tide; for after saw him fumble with the sheets and play with flowers and smile upon his finger's end, knew there was but one way, for his nose was as sharp as a pen and he talked of green fields.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 7)
"How now, Sir John?" quoth "What, man, be o' good cheer!(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 8)
" So he cried out "God, God, God!" three or four times.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 9)
Now to comfort him, bid him he should not think of God; hoped there was no need to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 10)
So he bade me lay more clothes on his feet. put my hand into the bed and felt them, and they were as cold as any stone.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 11)
Then felt to his knees, and so upward and upward, and all was as cold as any stone.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 12)
They say he cried out of sack.  Ay, that he did.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 13)
And of women.  Nay, that he did not.  Yes, that he did, and said they were devils incarnate.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 14)
He could never abide carnation. 'Twas a color he never liked.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 15)
He said once, the devil would have him about women.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 16)
He did in some sort, indeed, handle women, but then he was rheumatic and talked of the Whore of Babylon.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 17)
Do you not remember he saw a flea stick upon Bardolph's nose, and he said it was a black soul burning in hell?(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 18)
Well, the fuel is gone that maintained that fire.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 19)
That's all the riches got in his service.  Shall we shog?(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 20)
The King will be gone from Southampton.  Come, let's away.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 21)
--My love, give me thy lips. Look to my chattels and my movables.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 22)
Let senses rule. The word is "Pitch and pay." Trust none, for oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes, and Holdfast is the only dog, my duck.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 23)
Therefore, Caveto be thy counselor. Go, clear thy crystals.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 24)
--Yoke-fellows in arms, let us to France, like horse-leeches, my boys, to suck, to suck, the very blood to suck.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 25)
And that's but unwholesome food, they say.  Touch her soft mouth, and march.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 26)
Farewell, hostess.  cannot kiss, that is the humor of it.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 27)
But adieu.  Let huswifery appear. Keep close, thee command.(Henry V, Act 2, Scene 28)
Thus comes the English with full power upon us, And more than carefully it us concerns To answer royally in our defenses.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 0)
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Brittany, Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth, And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch, To line and new-repair our towns of war With men of courage and with means defendant.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 1)
For England his approaches makes as fierce As waters to the sucking of a gulf.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 2)
It fits us then to be as provident As fear may teach us out of late examples Left by the fatal and neglected English Upon our fields.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 3)
My most redoubted father, It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe, For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom, Though war nor no known quarrel were in question But that defenses, musters, preparations Should be maintained, assembled, and collected As were a war in expectation.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 4)
Therefore say 'tis meet we all go forth To view the sick and feeble parts of France.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 5)
And let us do it with no show of fear, No, with no more than if we heard that England Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 6)
For, my good liege, she is so idly kinged, Her scepter so fantastically borne By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth, That fear attends her not.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 7)
peace, Prince Dauphin! You are too much mistaken in this king.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 8)
Question your Grace the late ambassadors With what great state he heard their embassy, How well supplied with noble councillors, How modest in exception, and withal How terrible in constant resolution, And you shall find his vanities forespent Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus, Covering discretion with a coat of folly, As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots That shall first spring and be most delicate.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 9)
Well, 'tis not so, my Lord High Constable. But though we think it so, it is no matter.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 10)
In cases of defense, 'tis best to weigh The enemy more mighty than he seems.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 11)
So the proportions of defense are filled, Which of a weak and niggardly projection Doth, like a miser, spoil his coat with scanting little cloth.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 12)
Think we King Harry strong, And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 13)
The kindred of him hath been fleshed upon us, And he is bred out of that bloody strain That haunted us in our familiar paths.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 14)
Witness our too-much-memorable shame When Cressy battle fatally was struck And all our princes captived by the hand Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales, Whiles that his mountain sire, on mountain standing Up in the air, crowned with the golden sun, Saw his heroical seed and smiled to see him Mangle the work of nature and deface The patterns that by God and by French fathers Had twenty years been made.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 15)
This is a stem Of that victorious stock, and let us fear The native mightiness and fate of him.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 16)
Ambassadors from Harry King of England Do crave admittance to your Majesty.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 17)
We'll give them present audience. Go, and bring them.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 18)
You see this chase is hotly followed, friends.   Turn head and stop pursuit, for coward dogs Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten Runs far before them.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 19)
Good my sovereign, Take up the English short, and let them know Of what a monarchy you are the head.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 20)
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin As self-neglecting.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 21)
From our brother of England?   From him, and thus he greets your Majesty: He wills you, in the name of God almighty, That you divest yourself and lay apart The borrowed glories that, by gift of heaven, By law of nature and of nations, 'longs To him and to his heirs--namely, the crown And all wide-stretched honors that pertain By custom and the ordinance of times Unto the crown of France.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 22)
That you may know 'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim Picked from the wormholes of long-vanished days Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked, He sends you this most memorable line,  In every branch truly demonstrative, Willing you overlook this pedigree, And when you find him evenly derived From his most famed of famous ancestors, Edward the Third, he bids you then resign Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held From him, the native and true challenger.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 23)
Or else what follows?   Bloody constraint, for if you hide the crown Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 24)
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming, In thunder and in earthquake like a Jove, That, if requiring fail, he will compel, And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord, Deliver up the crown and to take mercy On the poor souls for whom this hungry war Opens his vasty jaws, and on your head Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries, The dead men's blood, the prived maidens' groans, For husbands, fathers, and betrothed lovers That shall be swallowed in this controversy.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 25)
This is his claim, his threat'ning, and my message-- Unless the Dauphin be in presence here, To whom expressly bring greeting too.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 26)
For us, we will consider of this further. Tomorrow shall you bear our full intent Back to our brother of England.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 27)
For the Dauphin, stand here for him. What to him from England?(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 28)
Scorn and defiance, slight regard, contempt, And anything that may not misbecome The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 29)
Thus says my king: an if your father's Highness Do not, in grant of all demands at large, Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his Majesty, He'll call you to so hot an answer of it That caves and womby vaultages of France Shall chide your trespass and return your mock In second accent of his ordinance.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 30)
Say, if my father render fair return, It is against my will, for desire Nothing but odds with England.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 31)
To that end, As matching to his youth and vanity, did present him with the Paris balls.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 32)
He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it, Were it the mistress court of mighty Europe.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 33)
And be assured you'll find a difference, As we his subjects have in wonder found, Between the promise of his greener days And these he masters now.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 34)
Now he weighs time Even to the utmost grain. That you shall read In your own losses, if he stay in France.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 35)
Tomorrow shall you know our mind at full.    Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king Come here himself to question our delay, For he is footed in this land already.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 36)
You shall be soon dispatched with fair conditions.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 37)
night is but small breath and little pause To answer matters of this consequence.(Henry V, Act 3, Scene 38)
Whither away so fast?  God save you. E'en to the Hall to hear what shall become Of the great Duke of Buckingham.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 0)
I'll save you That labor, sir. All's now done but the ceremony Of bringing back the prisoner.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 1)
Were you there?   Yes, indeed was  Pray speak what has happened.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 2)
You may guess quickly what.  Is he found guilty?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 3)
Yes, truly, is he, and condemned upon 't.   am sorry for 't.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 4)
So are a number more.  But pray, how passed it?   I'll tell you in a little.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 5)
The great duke Came to the bar, where to his accusations He pleaded still not guilty and alleged Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 6)
The King's attorney on the contrary Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions Of divers witnesses, which the Duke desired To him brought viva voce to his face; At which appeared against him his surveyor, Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor, and John Car, Confessor to him, with that devil monk, Hopkins, that made this mischief.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 7)
That was he That fed him with his prophecies?  The same.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 8)
All these accused him strongly, which he fain Would have flung from him, but indeed he could not.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 9)
And so his peers upon this evidence Have found him guilty of high treason.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 10)
Much He spoke, and learnedly, for life, but all Was either pitied in him or forgotten.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 11)
After all this, how did he bear himself?   When he was brought again to th' bar to hear His knell rung out, his judgment, he was stirred With such an agony he sweat extremely And something spoke in choler, ill and hasty.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 12)
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly In all the rest showed a most noble patience.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 13)
do not think he fears death.  Sure he does not; He never was so womanish.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 14)
The cause He may a little grieve at.  Certainly The Cardinal is the end of this.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 15)
'Tis likely, By all conjectures; first, Kildare's attainder, Then Deputy of Ireland, who, removed, Earl Surrey was sent thither, and in haste too, Lest he should help his father.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 16)
That trick of state Was a deep envious one.  At his return No doubt he will requite it.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 17)
This is noted, And generally: whoever the King favors, The Card'nal instantly will find employment, And far enough from court too.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 18)
All the commons Hate him perniciously and, o' my conscience, Wish him ten fathom deep.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 19)
This duke as much They love and dote on, call him bounteous Buckingham, The mirror of all courtesy.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 20)
Stay there, sir, And see the noble ruined man you speak of.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 21)
him, the ax with the edge towards him, Halberds on each side, accompanied with Sir Thomas Lovell, Sir Nicholas     Let's stand close and behold him.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 22)
All good people, You that thus far have come to pity me, Hear what say, and then go home and lose me.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 23)
have this day received a traitor's judgment, And by that name must die.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 24)
Yet heaven bear witness, And if have a conscience, let it sink me Even as the ax falls, if be not faithful!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 25)
The law bear no malice for my death; has done, upon the premises, but justice.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 26)
But those that sought it could wish more Christian.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 27)
Be what they will, heartily forgive 'em. Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief, Nor build their evils on the graves of great men, For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 28)
For further life in this world ne'er hope, Nor will sue, although the King have mercies More than dare make faults.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 29)
You few that loved me And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham, His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave Is only bitter to him, only dying, Go with me like good angels to my end, And as the long divorce of steel falls on me, Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice, And lift my soul to heaven.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 30)
--Lead on, a' God's name.   do beseech your Grace, for charity, If ever any malice in your heart Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 31)
Sir Thomas Lovell, as free forgive you As would be forgiven.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 32)
forgive all. There cannot be those numberless offenses 'Gainst me that cannot take peace with.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 33)
No black envy Shall make my grave. Commend me to his Grace.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 34)
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray tell him You met him half in heaven.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 35)
My vows and prayers Yet are the King's and, till my soul forsake, Shall cry for blessings on him.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 36)
May he live Longer than have time to tell his years.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 37)
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be; And when old Time shall lead him to his end, Goodness and he fill up one monument!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 38)
To th' waterside must conduct your Grace, Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux, Who undertakes you to your end.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 39)
Prepare there! The Duke is coming. See the barge be ready, And fit it with such furniture as suits The greatness of his person.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 40)
Nay, Sir Nicholas, Let it alone. My state now will but mock me.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 41)
When came hither, was Lord High Constable And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 42)
Yet am richer than my base accusers, That never knew what truth meant.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 43)
now seal it, And with that blood will make 'em one day groan for 't.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 44)
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham, Who first raised head against usurping Richard, Flying for succor to his servant Banister, Being distressed, was by that wretch betrayed, And, without trial, fell.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 45)
God's peace be with him. Henry the Seventh, succeeding, truly pitying My father's loss, like a most royal prince Restored me to my honors and out of ruins Made my name once more noble.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 46)
Now his son, Henry the Eighth, life, honor, name, and all That made me happy at one stroke has taken Forever from the world.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 47)
had my trial, And must needs say a noble one, which makes me little happier than my wretched father.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 48)
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most-- most unnatural and faithless service.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 49)
Heaven has an end in all; yet, you that hear me, This from a dying man receive as certain: Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends And give your hearts to, when they once perceive The least rub in your fortunes, fall away Like water from you, never found again But where they mean to sink you.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 50)
All good people, Pray for me. must now forsake you.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 51)
The last hour Of my long weary life is come upon me.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 52)
Farewell. And when you would say something that is sad, Speak how fell.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 53)
have done; and God forgive me.    this is full of pity, sir!(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 54)
It calls, fear, too many curses on their heads That were the authors.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 55)
If the Duke be guiltless, 'Tis full of woe. Yet can give you inkling Of an ensuing evil, if it fall, Greater than this.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 56)
Good angels keep it from us! What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 57)
This secret is so weighty 'twill require strong faith to conceal it.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 58)
Let me have it. do not talk much.  am confident; You shall, sir.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 59)
Did you not of late days hear buzzing of a separation Between the King and Katherine?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 60)
Yes, but it held not; For when the King once heard it, out of anger He sent command to the Lord Mayor straight To stop the rumor and allay those tongues That durst disperse it.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 61)
But that slander, sir, Is found a truth now, for it grows again Fresher than e'er it was, and held for certain The King will venture at it.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 62)
Either the Cardinal, Or some about him near, have, out of malice To the good queen, possessed him with a scruple That will undo her.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 63)
To confirm this too, Cardinal Campeius is arrived, and lately, As all think, for this business.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 64)
'Tis the Cardinal; And merely to revenge him on the Emperor For not bestowing on him at his asking The archbishopric of Toledo this is purposed.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 65)
think you have hit the mark. But is 't not cruel That she should feel the smart of this?(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 66)
The Cardinal Will have his will, and she must fall.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 67)
'Tis woeful. We are too open here to argue this.(Henry VIII, Act 0, Scene 68)
My lord, the horses your Lordship sent for, with all the care had saw well chosen, ridden, and furnished.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 0)
They were young and handsome and of the best breed in the north.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 1)
When they were ready to set out for London, a man of my Lord Cardinal's, by commission and main power, took 'em from me with this reason: his master would be served before a subject, if not before the King, which stopped our mouths, sir.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 2)
fear he will indeed; well, let him have them. He will have all, think.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 3)
Well met, my Lord Chamberlain.  Good day to both your Graces.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 4)
How is the King employed?  left him private, Full of sad thoughts and troubles.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 5)
What's the cause?   It seems the marriage with his brother's wife Has crept too near his conscience.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 6)
No, his conscience Has crept too near another lady.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 7)
'Tis so; This is the Cardinal's doing. The king-cardinal, That blind priest, like the eldest son of Fortune, Turns what he list.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 8)
The King will know him one day.   Pray God he do!(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 9)
He'll never know himself else.   How holily he works in all his business, And with what zeal!(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 10)
For, now he has cracked the league Between us and the Emperor, the Queen's great-nephew, He dives into the King's soul and there scatters Dangers, doubts, wringing of the conscience, Fears and despairs--and all these for his marriage.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 11)
And out of all these to restore the King, He counsels a divorce, a loss of her That like a jewel has hung twenty years About his neck, yet never lost her luster; Of her that loves him with that excellence That angels love good men with; even of her That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls, Will bless the King.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 12)
And is not this course pious?   Heaven keep me from such counsel!(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 13)
'Tis most true: These news are everywhere, every tongue speaks 'em, And every true heart weeps for 't.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 14)
All that dare Look into these affairs see this main end, The French king's sister.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 15)
Heaven will one day open The King's eyes, that so long have slept upon This bold bad man.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 16)
And free us from his slavery.  We had need pray, And heartily, for our deliverance, Or this imperious man will work us all From princes into pages.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 17)
All men's honors Lie like one lump before him, to be fashioned Into what pitch he please.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 18)
For me, my lords, love him not nor fear him; there's my creed.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 19)
As am made without him, so I'll stand, If the King please.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 20)
His curses and his blessings Touch me alike: they're breath not believe in.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 21)
knew him and know him; so leave him To him that made him proud, the Pope.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 22)
Let's in, And with some other business put the King From these sad thoughts that work too much upon him.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 23)
-- My lord, you'll bear us company?  Excuse me; The King has sent me otherwhere.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 24)
Besides, You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 25)
Health to your Lordships.  Thanks, my good Lord Chamberlain.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 26)
How sad he looks! Sure he is much afflicted.   Who's there?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 27)
Ha?  Pray God he be not angry.   Who's there, say?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 28)
How dare you thrust yourselves Into my private meditations?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 29)
Who am ha?   gracious king that pardons all offenses Malice ne'er meant.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 30)
Our breach of duty this way Is business of estate, in which we come To know your royal pleasure.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 31)
You are too bold. Go to; I'll make you know your times of business.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 32)
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?    Who's there?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 33)
My good Lord Cardinal? my Wolsey, The quiet of my wounded conscience, Thou art a cure fit for a king.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 34)
You're welcome, Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 35)
Use us and it.--My good lord, have great care be not found a talker.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 36)
Sir, you cannot. would your Grace would give us but an hour Of private conference.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 37)
We are busy. Go.   This priest has no pride in him?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 38)
Not to speak of. would not be so sick, though for his place.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 39)
But this cannot continue.  If it do, I'll venture one have-at-him.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 40)
another.    Your Grace has given a precedent of wisdom Above all princes in committing freely Your scruple to the voice of Christendom.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 41)
Who can be angry now? What envy reach you? The Spaniard, tied by blood and favor to her, Must now confess, if they have any goodness, The trial just and noble; all the clerks-- mean the learned ones in Christian kingdoms-- Have their free voices; Rome, the nurse of judgment, Invited by your noble self, hath sent One general tongue unto us, this good man, This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius, Whom once more present unto your Highness.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 42)
And once more in mine arms bid him welcome, And thank the holy conclave for their loves.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 43)
They have sent me such a man would have wished for.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 44)
Your Grace must needs deserve all strangers' loves, You are so noble.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 45)
To your Highness' hand tender my commission--by whose virtue, The court of Rome commanding, you, my Lord Cardinal of York, are joined with me their servant In the unpartial judging of this business.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 46)
Two equal men. The Queen shall be acquainted Forthwith for what you come.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 47)
Where's Gardiner?   know your Majesty has always loved her So dear in heart not to deny her that woman of less place might ask by law: Scholars allowed freely to argue for her.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 48)
Ay, and the best she shall have, and my favor To him that does best.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 49)
God forbid else. Cardinal, Prithee call Gardiner to me, my new secretary.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 50)
find him a fit fellow.      Give me your hand. Much joy and favor to you.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 51)
You are the King's now.  But to be commanded Forever by your Grace, whose hand has raised me.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 52)
Come hither, Gardiner.    My lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace In this man's place before him?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 53)
Yes, he was.   Was he not held a learned man?  Yes, surely.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 54)
Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread, then, Even of yourself, Lord Cardinal.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 55)
How? Of me?   They will not stick to say you envied him And, fearing he would rise--he was so virtuous-- Kept him a foreign man still, which so grieved him That he ran mad and died.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 56)
Heav'n's peace be with him! That's Christian care enough.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 57)
For living murmurers, There's places of rebuke. He was a fool, For he would needs be virtuous.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 58)
That good fellow If command him follows my appointment.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 59)
will have none so near else. Learn this, brother: We live not to be griped by meaner persons.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 60)
Deliver this with modesty to th' Queen.  The most convenient place that can think of For such receipt of learning is Blackfriars.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 61)
There you shall meet about this weighty business.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 62)
My Wolsey, see it furnished. my lord, Would it not grieve an able man to leave So sweet a bedfellow?(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 63)
But, conscience, conscience! 'tis a tender place, and must leave her.(Henry VIII, Act 1, Scene 64)
Not for that neither. Here's the pang that pinches: His Highness having lived so long with her, and she So good a lady that no tongue could ever Pronounce dishonor of her--by my life, She never knew harm-doing!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 0)
--O, now, after So many courses of the sun enthroned, Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which To leave a thousandfold more bitter than 'Tis sweet at first t' acquire--after this process, To give her the avaunt!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 1)
It is a pity Would move a monster.  Hearts of most hard temper Melt and lament for her.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 2)
God's will! Much better She ne'er had known pomp; though 't be temporal, Yet if that quarrel, Fortune, do divorce It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging As soul and body's severing.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 3)
Alas, poor lady, She's a stranger now again!  So much the more Must pity drop upon her.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 4)
Verily, swear, 'tis better to be lowly born And range with humble livers in content Than to be perked up in a glist'ring grief And wear a golden sorrow.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 5)
Our content Is our best having.  By my troth and maidenhead, would not be a queen.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 6)
Beshrew me, would, And venture maidenhead for 't; and so would you, For all this spice of your hypocrisy.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 7)
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you, Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty; Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts, Saving your mincing, the capacity Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive If you might please to stretch it.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 8)
Nay, good troth.   Yes, troth, and troth. You would not be a queen?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 9)
No, not for all the riches under heaven.   'Tis strange.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 10)
threepence bowed would hire me, Old as am, to queen it.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 11)
But pray you, What think you of a duchess? Have you limbs To bear that load of title?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 12)
No, in truth.   Then you are weakly made. Pluck off a little.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 13)
would not be a young count in your way For more than blushing comes to.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 14)
If your back Cannot vouchsafe this burden, 'tis too weak Ever to get a boy.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 15)
How you do talk! swear again, would not be a queen For all the world.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 16)
In faith, for little England You'd venture an emballing.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 17)
myself Would for Carnarvanshire, although there longed No more to th' crown but that.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 18)
Lo, who comes here?      Good morrow, ladies. What were 't worth to know The secret of your conference?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 19)
My good lord, Not your demand; it values not your asking.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 20)
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.   It was a gentle business, and becoming The action of good women.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 21)
There is hope All will be well.  Now, pray God, amen!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 22)
You bear a gentle mind, and heav'nly blessings Follow such creatures.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 23)
That you may, fair lady, Perceive speak sincerely, and high note's Ta'en of your many virtues, the King's Majesty Commends his good opinion of you to you, and Does purpose honor to you no less flowing Than Marchioness of Pembroke, to which title thousand pound a year annual support Out of his grace he adds.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 24)
do not know What kind of my obedience should tender.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 25)
More than my all is nothing, nor my prayers Are not words duly hallowed, nor my wishes More worth than empty vanities.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 26)
Yet prayers and wishes Are all can return. 'Beseech your Lordship, Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience, As from a blushing handmaid, to his Highness, Whose health and royalty pray for.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 27)
Lady, shall not fail t' approve the fair conceit The King hath of you.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 28)
have perused her well. Beauty and honor in her are so mingled That they have caught the King.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 29)
And who knows yet But from this lady may proceed a gem To lighten all this isle?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 30)
--I'll to the King And say spoke with you.  My honored lord.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 31)
Why, this it is! See, see! have been begging sixteen years in court, Am yet a courtier beggarly, nor could Come pat betwixt too early and too late For any suit of pounds; and you--O, fate!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 32)
-- very fresh fish here--fie, fie, fie upon This compelled fortune!(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 33)
--have your mouth filled up Before you open it.  This is strange to me.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 34)
How tastes it? Is it bitter? Forty pence, no. There was a lady once--'tis an old story-- That would not be a queen, that would she not, For all the mud in Egypt.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 35)
Have you heard it?   Come, you are pleasant.  With your theme, could O'ermount the lark.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 36)
The Marchioness of Pembroke? thousand pounds a year for pure respect?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 37)
No other obligation? By my life, That promises more thousands; honor's train Is longer than his foreskirt.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 38)
By this time know your back will bear a duchess. Say, Are you not stronger than you were?(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 39)
Good lady, Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy, And leave me out on 't.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 40)
Would had no being If this salute my blood a jot.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 41)
It faints me To think what follows. The Queen is comfortless and we forgetful In our long absence.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 42)
Pray do not deliver What here you've heard to her.(Henry VIII, Act 2, Scene 43)
2     short silver wands; next them, two Scribes, in the habit of doctors; after them, the Bishop of Canterbury alone; after him, the Bishops of Lincoln, Ely, Rochester, and Saint Asaph; next them, with some small distance, follows a Gentleman bearing the purse with the great seal, and a cardinal's hat.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 0)
Then two Priests, bearing each a silver cross; then a Gentleman Usher bare-headed, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-Arms, bearing a silver mace; then two Gentlemen, bearing two great silver pillars.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 1)
After them, side by side, the two Cardinals, and two Noblemen with the sword and mace.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 2)
The King takes place under the cloth of state. The two Cardinals sit under him as judges.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 3)
The Queen takes place some distance from the King.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 4)
The Bishops place themselves on each side the court, in manner of a consistory; below them the Scribes.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 5)
The Lords sit next the Bishops. The rest of the Attendants including a Crier and the Queen's Gentleman Usher     Whilst our commission from Rome is read, Let silence be commanded.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 6)
What's the need? It hath already publicly been read, And on all sides th' authority allowed.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 7)
You may then spare that time.  Be 't so. Proceed.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 8)
Say "Henry King of England, come into the court.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 9)
"  Henry King of England, come into the court.  Here.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 10)
Say "Katherine Queen of England, come into the court.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 11)
"  Katherine Queen of England, come into the court.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 12)
chair, goes about the court, comes to the King,    Sir, desire you do me right and justice, And to bestow your pity on me; for am a most poor woman and a stranger, Born out of your dominions, having here No judge indifferent nor no more assurance Of equal friendship and proceeding.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 13)
Alas, sir, In what have offended you? What cause Hath my behavior given to your displeasure That thus you should proceed to put me off And take your good grace from me?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 14)
Heaven witness have been to you a true and humble wife, At all times to your will conformable, Ever in fear to kindle your dislike, Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry As saw it inclined.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 15)
When was the hour ever contradicted your desire, Or made it not mine too?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 16)
Or which of your friends Have not strove to love, although knew He were mine enemy?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 17)
What friend of mine That had to him derived your anger did Continue in my liking?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 18)
Nay, gave notice He was from thence discharged? Sir, call to mind That have been your wife in this obedience Upward of twenty years, and have been blessed With many children by you.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 19)
If, in the course And process of this time, you can report, And prove it too, against mine honor aught, My bond to wedlock or my love and duty Against your sacred person, in God's name Turn me away and let the foul'st contempt Shut door upon me, and so give me up To the sharp'st kind of justice.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 20)
Please you, sir, The King your father was reputed for prince most prudent, of an excellent And unmatched wit and judgment.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 21)
Ferdinand, My father, King of Spain, was reckoned one The wisest prince that there had reigned by many year before.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 22)
It is not to be questioned That they had gathered a wise council to them Of every realm, that did debate this business, Who deemed our marriage lawful.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 23)
Wherefore humbly Beseech you, sir, to spare me till may Be by my friends in Spain advised, whose counsel will implore.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 24)
If not, i' th' name of God, Your pleasure be fulfilled.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 25)
You have here, lady, And of your choice, these reverend fathers, men Of singular integrity and learning, Yea, the elect o' th' land, who are assembled To plead your cause.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 26)
It shall be therefore bootless That longer you desire the court, as well For your own quiet as to rectify What is unsettled in the King.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 27)
His Grace Hath spoken well and justly. Therefore, madam, It's fit this royal session do proceed And that without delay their arguments Be now produced and heard.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 28)
Lord Cardinal, To you speak.  Your pleasure, madam.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 29)
Sir, am about to weep; but thinking that We are a queen, or long have dreamed so, certain The daughter of a king, my drops of tears I'll turn to sparks of fire.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 30)
Be patient yet.   will, when you are humble; nay, before, Or God will punish me.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 31)
do believe, Induced by potent circumstances, that You are mine enemy, and make my challenge You shall not be my judge; for it is you Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me-- Which God's dew quench!(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 32)
Therefore say again, utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge, whom, yet once more, hold my most malicious foe and think not At all a friend to truth.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 33)
do profess You speak not like yourself, who ever yet Have stood to charity and displayed th' effects Of disposition gentle and of wisdom O'ertopping woman's power.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 34)
Madam, you do me wrong. have no spleen against you, nor injustice For you or any.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 35)
How far have proceeded, Or how far further shall, is warranted By a commission from the Consistory, Yea, the whole Consistory of Rome.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 36)
You charge me That "have blown this coal." do deny it.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 37)
The King is present. If it be known to him That gainsay my deed, how may he wound, And worthily, my falsehood, yea, as much As you have done my truth.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 38)
If he know That am free of your report, he knows am not of your wrong.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 39)
Therefore in him It lies to cure me, and the cure is to Remove these thoughts from you, the which before His Highness shall speak in, do beseech You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking And to say so no more.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 40)
My lord, my lord, am a simple woman, much too weak oppose your cunning.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 41)
You're meek and humble-mouthed; You sign your place and calling, in full seeming, With meekness and humility, but your heart Is crammed with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 42)
You have by fortune and his Highness' favors Gone slightly o'er low steps, and now are mounted Where powers are your retainers, and your words, Domestics to you, serve your will as 't please Yourself pronounce their office.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 43)
must tell you, You tender more your person's honor than Your high profession spiritual, that again do refuse you for my judge, and here, Before you all, appeal unto the Pope To bring my whole cause 'fore his Holiness, And to be judged by him.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 44)
The Queen is obstinate, Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and Disdainful to be tried by 't.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 45)
'Tis not well. She's going away.  Call her again.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 46)
Katherine, Queen of England, come into the court.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 47)
Madam, you are called back.   What need you note it?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 48)
Pray you, keep your way. When you are called, return.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 49)
Now, the Lord help! They vex me past my patience.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 50)
Pray you, pass on. will not tarry; no, nor ever more Upon this business my appearance make In any of their courts.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 51)
Go thy ways, Kate. That man i' th' world who shall report he has better wife, let him in naught be trusted, For speaking false in that.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 52)
Thou art, alone-- If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness, Thy meekness saintlike, wifelike government, Obeying in commanding, and thy parts Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out-- The queen of earthly queens.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 53)
She's noble born, And like her true nobility she has Carried herself towards me.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 54)
Most gracious sir, In humblest manner require your Highness That it shall please you to declare in hearing Of all these ears--for where am robbed and bound, There must be unloosed, although not there At once and fully satisfied--whether ever Did broach this business to your Highness, or Laid any scruple in your way which might Induce you to the question on 't, or ever Have to you, but with thanks to God for such royal lady, spake one the least word that might Be to the prejudice of her present state, Or touch of her good person?(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 55)
My Lord Cardinal, do excuse you; yea, upon mine honor, free you from 't.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 56)
You are not to be taught That you have many enemies that know not Why they are so but, like to village curs, Bark when their fellows do.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 57)
By some of these The Queen is put in anger. You're excused.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 58)
But will you be more justified? You ever Have wished the sleeping of this business, never desired It to be stirred, but oft have hindered, oft, The passages made toward it.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 59)
On my honor speak my good Lord Cardinal to this point And thus far clear him.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 60)
Now, what moved me to 't, will be bold with time and your attention.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 61)
Then mark th' inducement. Thus it came; give heed to 't: My conscience first received a tenderness, Scruple, and prick on certain speeches uttered By th' Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador, Who had been hither sent on the debating marriage 'twixt the Duke of Orleans and Our daughter Mary.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 62)
th' progress of this business, Ere a determinate resolution, he, mean the Bishop, did require a respite Wherein he might the King his lord advertise Whether our daughter were legitimate, Respecting this our marriage with the dowager, Sometime our brother's wife.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 63)
This respite shook The bosom of my conscience, entered me, Yea, with a spitting power, and made to tremble The region of my breast; which forced such way That many mazed considerings did throng And pressed in with this caution.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 64)
First, methought stood not in the smile of heaven, who had Commanded nature that my lady's womb, If it conceived a male child by me, should Do no more offices of life to 't than The grave does to th' dead, for her male issue Or died where they were made, or shortly after This world had aired them.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 65)
Hence took a thought This was a judgment on me, that my kingdom, Well worthy the best heir o' th' world, should not Be gladded in 't by me.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 66)
Then follows that weighed the danger which my realms stood in By this my issue's fail, and that gave to me Many a groaning throe.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 67)
Thus hulling in The wild sea of my conscience, did steer Toward this remedy whereupon we are Now present here together.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 68)
That's to say, meant to rectify my conscience, which then did feel full sick, and yet not well, By all the reverend fathers of the land And doctors learned.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 69)
First, began in private With you, my Lord of Lincoln.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 70)
You remember How under my oppression did reek When first moved you.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 71)
Very well, my liege.   have spoke long. Be pleased yourself to say How far you satisfied me.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 72)
So please your Highness, The question did at first so stagger me, Bearing a state of mighty moment in 't And consequence of dread, that committed The daring'st counsel which had to doubt, And did entreat your Highness to this course Which you are running here.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 73)
then moved you, My Lord of Canterbury, and got your leave To make this present summons.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 74)
Unsolicited left no reverend person in this court, But by particular consent proceeded Under your hands and seals.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 75)
Therefore go on, For no dislike i' th' world against the person Of the good queen, but the sharp thorny points Of my alleged reasons drives this forward.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 76)
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life And kingly dignity, we are contented To wear our mortal state to come with her, Katherine our queen, before the primest creature That's paragoned o' th' world.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 77)
So please your Highness, The Queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 78)
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion Made to the Queen to call back her appeal She intends unto his Holiness.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 79)
may perceive These cardinals trifle with me. abhor This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 80)
My learned and well-beloved servant Cranmer, Prithee return.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 81)
With thy approach, know, My comfort comes along.--Break up the court.(Henry VIII, Act 3, Scene 82)
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 0)
will, my lord.   You shall do marvelous wisely, good Reynaldo, Before you visit him, to make inquire Of his behavior.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 1)
My lord, did intend it.   Marry, well said, very well said.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 2)
Look you, sir, Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris; And how, and who, what means, and where they keep, What company, at what expense; and finding By this encompassment and drift of question That they do know my son, come you more nearer Than your particular demands will touch it.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 3)
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him, As thus: know his father and his friends And, in part, him.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 4)
" Do you mark this, Reynaldo?  Ay, very well, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 5)
"And, in part, him, but," you may say, "not well.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 6)
But if 't be he mean, he's very wild, Addicted so and so.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 7)
" And there put on him What forgeries you please--marry, none so rank As may dishonor him, take heed of that, But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips As are companions noted and most known To youth and liberty.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 8)
As gaming, my lord.  Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, Quarreling, drabbing--you may go so far.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 9)
My lord, that would dishonor him.   Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 10)
You must not put another scandal on him That he is open to incontinency; That's not my meaning.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 11)
But breathe his faults so quaintly That they may seem the taints of liberty, The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind, savageness in unreclaimed blood, Of general assault.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 12)
But, my good lord--  Wherefore should you do this?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 13)
Ay, my lord, would know that.  Marry, sir, here's my drift, And believe it is a fetch of wit.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 14)
You, laying these slight sullies on my son, As 'twere a thing a little soiled i' th' working, Mark you, your party in converse, him you would sound, Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured He closes with you in this consequence: "Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentleman," According to the phrase or the addition Of man and country--  Very good, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 15)
And then, sir, does he this, he does--what was about to say?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 16)
By the Mass, was about to say something. Where did leave?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 17)
At "closes in the consequence," at "friend, or so," and "gentleman.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 18)
"   At "closes in the consequence"--ay, marry-- He closes thus: know the gentleman.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 19)
saw him yesterday," or "th' other day" (Or then, or then, with such or such), "and as you say, There was he gaming, there o'ertook in 's rouse, There falling out at tennis"; or perchance saw him enter such a house of sale"-- Videlicet, a brothel--or so forth.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 20)
See you now Your bait of falsehood take this carp of truth; And thus do we of wisdom and of reach, With windlasses and with assays of bias, By indirections find directions out.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 21)
So by my former lecture and advice Shall you my son.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 22)
You have me, have you not?   My lord, have.  God be wi' you.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 23)
Fare you well.  Good my lord.   Observe his inclination in yourself.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 24)
shall, my lord.  And let him ply his music.  Well, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 25)
Farewell.    How now, Ophelia, what's the matter?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 26)
my lord, my lord, have been so affrighted!  With what, i' th' name of God?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 27)
My lord, as was sewing in my closet, Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced, No hat upon his head, his stockings fouled, Ungartered, and down-gyved to his ankle, Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other, And with a look so piteous in purport As if he had been loosed out of hell To speak of horrors--he comes before me.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 28)
Mad for thy love?  My lord, do not know, But truly do fear it.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 29)
What said he?   He took me by the wrist and held me hard.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 30)
Then goes he to the length of all his arm, And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow, He falls to such perusal of my face As he would draw it.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 31)
Long stayed he so. At last, a little shaking of mine arm, And thrice his head thus waving up and down, He raised a sigh so piteous and profound As it did seem to shatter all his bulk And end his being.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 32)
That done, he lets me go, And, with his head over his shoulder turned, He seemed to find his way without his eyes, For out o' doors he went without their helps And to the last bended their light on me.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 33)
Come, go with me. will go seek the King. This is the very ecstasy of love, Whose violent property fordoes itself And leads the will to desperate undertakings As oft as any passions under heaven That does afflict our natures.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 34)
am sorry. What, have you given him any hard words of late?(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 35)
No, my good lord, but as you did command did repel his letters and denied His access to me.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 36)
That hath made him mad. am sorry that with better heed and judgment had not coted him.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 37)
feared he did but trifle And meant to wrack thee.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 38)
But beshrew my jealousy! By heaven, it is as proper to our age To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions As it is common for the younger sort To lack discretion.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 39)
Come, go we to the King. This must be known, which, being kept close, might move More grief to hide than hate to utter love.(Hamlet, Act 0, Scene 40)
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Moreover that we much did long to see you, The need we have to use you did provoke Our hasty sending.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 0)
Something have you heard Of Hamlet's transformation, so call it, Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man Resembles that it was.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 1)
What it should be, More than his father's death, that thus hath put him So much from th' understanding of himself cannot dream of.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 2)
entreat you both That, being of so young days brought up with him And sith so neighbored to his youth and havior, That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court Some little time, so by your companies To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather So much as from occasion you may glean, Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus That, opened, lies within our remedy.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 3)
Good gentlemen, he hath much talked of you, And sure am two men there is not living To whom he more adheres.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 4)
If it will please you To show us so much gentry and goodwill As to expend your time with us awhile For the supply and profit of our hope, Your visitation shall receive such thanks As fits a king's remembrance.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 5)
Both your Majesties Might, by the sovereign power you have of us, Put your dread pleasures more into command Than to entreaty.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 6)
But we both obey, And here give up ourselves in the full bent To lay our service freely at your feet, To be commanded.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 7)
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.   Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 8)
And beseech you instantly to visit My too much changed son.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 9)
--Go, some of you, And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 10)
Heavens make our presence and our practices Pleasant and helpful to him!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 11)
Ay, amen!        Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord, Are joyfully returned.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 12)
Thou still hast been the father of good news.   Have my lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 13)
assure my good liege hold my duty as hold my soul, Both to my God and to my gracious king, And do think, or else this brain of mine Hunts not the trail of policy so sure As it hath used to do, that have found The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 14)
speak of that! That do long to hear.   Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 15)
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.   Thyself do grace to them and bring them in.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 16)
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found The head and source of all your son's distemper.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 17)
doubt it is no other but the main-- His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 18)
Well, we shall sift him.     Welcome, my good friends.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 19)
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?   Most fair return of greetings and desires.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 20)
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress His nephew's levies, which to him appeared To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack, But, better looked into, he truly found It was against your Highness.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 21)
Whereat, grieved That so his sickness, age, and impotence Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests On Fortinbras, which he, in brief, obeys, Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine, Makes vow before his uncle never more To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 22)
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy, Gives him three-score thousand crowns in annual fee And his commission to employ those soldiers, So levied as before, against the Polack, With an entreaty, herein further shown,  That it might please you to give quiet pass Through your dominions for this enterprise, On such regards of safety and allowance As therein are set down.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 23)
It likes us well, And, at our more considered time, we'll read, Answer, and think upon this business.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 24)
Meantime, we thank you for your well-took labor. Go to your rest.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 25)
At night we'll feast together. Most welcome home!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 26)
This business is well ended. My liege, and madam, to expostulate What majesty should be, what duty is, Why day is day, night night, and time is time Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 27)
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit, And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes, will be brief.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 28)
Your noble son is mad. "Mad" call it, for, to define true madness, What is 't but to be nothing else but mad?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 29)
But let that go.  More matter with less art.   Madam, swear use no art at all.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 30)
That he's mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'tis pity, And pity 'tis 'tis true--a foolish figure, But farewell it, for will use no art.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 31)
Mad let us grant him then, and now remains That we find out the cause of this effect, Or, rather say, the cause of this defect, For this effect defective comes by cause.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 32)
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 33)
have a daughter (have while she is mine) Who, in her duty and obedience, mark, Hath given me this.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 34)
Now gather and surmise. To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified Ophelia-- That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; "beautified" is a vile phrase.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 35)
But you shall hear. Thus: In her excellent white bosom, these, etc.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 36)
--  Came this from Hamlet to her?   Good madam, stay awhile.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 37)
will be faithful.  Doubt thou the stars are fire, Doubt that the sun doth move, Doubt truth to be a liar, But never doubt love.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 38)
dear Ophelia, am ill at these numbers. have not art to reckon my groans, but that love thee best, most best, believe it.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 39)
Adieu. Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him, Hamlet.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 40)
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me, And more above, hath his solicitings, As they fell out by time, by means, and place, All given to mine ear.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 41)
But how hath she received his love?  What do you think of me?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 42)
As of a man faithful and honorable.   would fain prove so.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 43)
But what might you think, When had seen this hot love on the wing (As perceived it, must tell you that, Before my daughter told me), what might you, Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think, If had played the desk or table-book Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb, Or looked upon this love with idle sight?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 44)
What might you think? No, went round to work, And my young mistress thus did bespeak: "Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 45)
This must not be." And then prescripts gave her, That she should lock herself from his resort, Admit no messengers, receive no tokens; Which done, she took the fruits of my advice, And he, repelled (a short tale to make), Fell into a sadness, then into a fast, Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness, Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension, Into the madness wherein now he raves And all we mourn for.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 46)
Do you think 'tis this?  It may be, very like.   Hath there been such a time would fain know that) That have positively said "'Tis so," When it proved otherwise?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 47)
Not that know.   Take this from this, if this be otherwise.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 48)
If circumstances lead me, will find Where truth is hid, though it were hid, indeed, Within the center.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 49)
How may we try it further?   You know sometimes he walks four hours together Here in the lobby.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 50)
So he does indeed.   At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 51)
Be you and behind an arras then. Mark the encounter.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 52)
If he love her not, And be not from his reason fall'n thereon, Let me be no assistant for a state, But keep a farm and carters.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 53)
We will try it.      But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 54)
Away, do beseech you both, away. I'll board him presently.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 55)
give me leave.  How does my good Lord Hamlet?  Well, God-a-mercy.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 56)
Do you know me, my lord?  Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 57)
Not my lord.  Then would you were so honest a man.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 58)
Honest, my lord?  Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man picked out of ten thousand.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 59)
That's very true, my lord.  For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a good kissing carrion--Have you a daughter?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 60)
have, my lord.  Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but, as your daughter may conceive, friend, look to 't.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 61)
How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 62)
Yet he knew me not at first; he said was a fishmonger.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 63)
He is far gone. And truly, in my youth, suffered much extremity for love, very near this.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 64)
I'll speak to him again.--What do you read, my lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 65)
Words, words, words.  What is the matter, my lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 66)
Between who?  mean the matter that you read, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 67)
Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men have gray beards, that their faces are wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and plum-tree gum, and that they have a plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams; all which, sir, though most powerfully and potently believe, yet hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for yourself, sir, shall grow old as am, if, like a crab, you could go backward.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 68)
Though this be madness, yet there is method in 't.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 69)
--Will you walk out of the air, my lord?  Into my grave?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 70)
Indeed, that's out of the air.  How pregnant sometimes his replies are!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 71)
happiness that often madness hits on, which reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 72)
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between him and my daughter.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 73)
--My lord, will take my leave of you.  You cannot, sir, take from me anything that will more willingly part withal--except my life, except my life, except my life.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 74)
Fare you well, my lord.  These tedious old fools.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 75)
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.  God save you, sir.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 76)
My honored lord.  My most dear lord.  My excellent good friends!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 77)
How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do you both?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 78)
As the indifferent children of the earth.   Happy in that we are not overhappy.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 79)
On Fortune's cap, we are not the very button.  Nor the soles of her shoe?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 80)
Neither, my lord.  Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her favors?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 81)
Faith, her privates we.  In the secret parts of Fortune?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 82)
most true! She is a strumpet. What news?  None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 83)
Then is doomsday near. But your news is not true.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 84)
Let me question more in particular. What have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison hither?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 85)
Prison, my lord?  Denmark's a prison.  Then is the world one.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 86)
goodly one, in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 87)
We think not so, my lord.  Why, then, 'tis none to you, for there is nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it so.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 88)
To me, it is a prison.  Why, then, your ambition makes it one.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 89)
'Tis too narrow for your mind.  God, could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a king of infinite space, were it not that have bad dreams.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 90)
Which dreams, indeed, are ambition, for the very substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 91)
dream itself is but a shadow.  Truly, and hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 92)
Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 93)
Shall we to th' court? For, by my fay, cannot reason.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 94)
We'll wait upon you.  No such matter. will not sort you with the rest of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest man, am most dreadfully attended.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 95)
But, in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 96)
To visit you, my lord, no other occasion.  Beggar that am, am even poor in thanks; but thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 97)
Were you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free visitation?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 98)
Come, come, deal justly with me. Come, come; nay, speak.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 99)
What should we say, my lord?  Anything but to th' purpose.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 100)
You were sent for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks which your modesties have not craft enough to color.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 101)
know the good king and queen have sent for you.  To what end, my lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 102)
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a better proposer can charge you withal: be even and direct with me whether you were sent for or no.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 103)
What say you?  Nay, then, have an eye of you.--If you love me, hold not off.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 104)
My lord, we were sent for.  will tell you why; so shall my anticipation prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen molt no feather.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 105)
have of late, but wherefore know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all custom of exercises, and, indeed, it goes so heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the Earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof, fretted with golden fire--why, it appeareth nothing to me but a foul and pestilent congregation of vapors.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 106)
What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving how express and admirable; in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god: the beauty of the world, the paragon of animals--and yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 107)
Man delights not me, no, nor women neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 108)
My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 109)
Why did you laugh, then, when said "man delights not me"?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 110)
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what Lenten entertainment the players shall receive from you.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 111)
We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 112)
He that plays the king shall be welcome--his Majesty shall have tribute on me.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 113)
The adventurous knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt for 't.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 114)
What players are they?  Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the tragedians of the city.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 115)
How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in reputation and profit, was better both ways.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 116)
think their inhibition comes by the means of the late innovation.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 117)
Do they hold the same estimation they did when was in the city?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 118)
Are they so followed?  No, indeed are they not.  How comes it?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 119)
Do they grow rusty?  Nay, their endeavor keeps in the wonted pace.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 120)
But there is, sir, an aerie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are most tyrannically clapped for 't.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 121)
These are now the fashion and so berattle the common stages (so they call them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goose quills and dare scarce come thither.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 122)
What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they escoted?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 123)
Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can sing?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 124)
Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim against their own succession?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 125)
Faith, there has been much to-do on both sides, and the nation holds it no sin to tar them to controversy.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 126)
There was for a while no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player went to cuffs in the question.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 127)
Is 't possible?  there has been much throwing about of brains.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 128)
Do the boys carry it away?  Ay, that they do, my lord--Hercules and his load too.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 129)
It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and those that would make mouths at him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 130)
'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if philosophy could find it out.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 131)
There are the players.  Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 132)
Your hands, come then. Th' appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 133)
Let me comply with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players, which, tell you, must show fairly outwards, should more appear like entertainment than yours.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 134)
You are welcome. But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 135)
In what, my dear lord?  am but mad north-north-west.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 136)
When the wind is southerly, know a hawk from a handsaw.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 137)
Well be with you, gentlemen.  Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too--at each ear a hearer!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 138)
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling clouts.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 139)
Haply he is the second time come to them, for they say an old man is twice a child.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 140)
will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players; mark it.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 141)
--You say right, sir, a Monday morning, 'twas then indeed.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 142)
My lord, have news to tell you.  My lord, have news to tell you: when Roscius was an actor in Rome--  The actors are come hither, my lord.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 143)
Buzz, buzz.  Upon my honor--  Then came each actor on his ass.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 144)
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or poem unlimited.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 145)
Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor Plautus too light.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 146)
For the law of writ and the liberty, these are the only men.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 147)
Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 148)
What a treasure had he, my lord?  Why, One fair daughter, and no more, The which he loved passing well.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 149)
Still on my daughter.  Am not i' th' right, old Jephthah?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 150)
If you call me "Jephthah," my lord: have a daughter that love passing well.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 151)
Nay, that follows not.  What follows then, my lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 152)
Why, As by lot, God wot and then, you know, It came to pass, as most like it was-- the first row of the pious chanson will show you more, for look where my abridgment comes.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 153)
You are welcome, masters; welcome all.--I am glad to see thee well.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 154)
--Welcome, good friends.--O my old friend! Why, thy face is valanced since saw thee last.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 155)
Com'st thou to beard me in Denmark?--What, my young lady and mistress!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 156)
By 'r Lady, your Ladyship is nearer to heaven than when saw you last, by the altitude of a chopine.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 157)
Pray God your voice, like a piece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the ring.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 158)
Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en to 't like French falconers, fly at anything we see.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 159)
We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a taste of your quality.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 160)
Come, a passionate speech.  What speech, my good lord?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 161)
heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted, or, if it was, not above once; for the play, remember, pleased not the million: 'twas caviary to the general.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 162)
But it was (as received it, and others whose judgments in such matters cried in the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes, set down with as much modesty as cunning.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 163)
remember one said there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savory, nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of affection, but called it an honest method, as wholesome as sweet and, by very much, more handsome than fine.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 164)
One speech in 't chiefly loved. 'Twas Aeneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it especially when he speaks of Priam's slaughter.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 165)
If it live in your memory, begin at this line--let me see, let me see: The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-- 'tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus: The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms, Black as his purpose, did the night resemble When he lay couched in th' ominous horse, Hath now this dread and black complexion smeared With heraldry more dismal.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 166)
Head to foot, Now is he total gules, horridly tricked With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons, Baked and impasted with the parching streets, That lend a tyrannous and a damned light To their lord's murder.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 167)
Roasted in wrath and fire, And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore, With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus Old grandsire Priam seeks.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 168)
So, proceed you.  'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good discretion.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 169)
Anon he finds him Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword, Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls, Repugnant to command.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 170)
Unequal matched, Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide; But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword Th' unnerved father falls.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 171)
Then senseless Ilium, Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 172)
For lo, his sword, Which was declining on the milky head Of reverend Priam, seemed i' th' air to stick.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 173)
So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood And, like a neutral to his will and matter, Did nothing.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 174)
But as we often see against some storm silence in the heavens, the rack stand still, The bold winds speechless, and the orb below As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause, Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work, And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall On Mars's armor, forged for proof eterne, With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword Now falls on Priam.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 175)
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods In general synod take away her power, Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel, And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven As low as to the fiends!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 176)
This is too long.  It shall to the barber's with your beard.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 177)
-- Prithee say on. He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 178)
Say on; come to Hecuba.   But who, ah woe, had seen the mobled queen--  "The mobled queen"?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 179)
That's good. "Mobled queen" is good.   Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames With bisson rheum, a clout upon that head Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe, About her lank and all o'erteemed loins blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-- Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steeped, 'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounced.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 180)
But if the gods themselves did see her then When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs, The instant burst of clamor that she made (Unless things mortal move them not at all) Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven And passion in the gods.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 181)
Look whe'er he has not turned his color and has tears in 's eyes.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 182)
Prithee, no more.  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 183)
--Good my lord, will you see the players well bestowed?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 184)
Do you hear, let them be well used, for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the time.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 185)
After your death you were better have a bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 186)
My lord, will use them according to their desert.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 187)
God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his desert and who shall 'scape whipping?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 188)
Use them after your own honor and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 189)
Take them in.  Come, sirs.  Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play tomorrow.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 190)
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play "The Murder of Gonzago"?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 191)
Ay, my lord.  We'll ha 't tomorrow night. You could, for a need, study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which would set down and insert in 't, could you not?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 192)
Ay, my lord.  Very well. Follow that lord--and look you mock him not.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 193)
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to Elsinore.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 194)
Good my lord.   Ay, so, good-bye to you.  Now am alone.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 195)
what a rogue and peasant slave am Is it not monstrous that this player here, But in a fiction, in a dream of passion, Could force his soul so to his own conceit That from her working all his visage wanned, Tears in his eyes, distraction in his aspect, broken voice, and his whole function suiting With forms to his conceit--and all for nothing!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 196)
For Hecuba! What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba, That he should weep for her?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 197)
What would he do Had he the motive and the cue for passion That have?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 198)
He would drown the stage with tears And cleave the general ear with horrid speech, Make mad the guilty and appall the free, Confound the ignorant and amaze indeed The very faculties of eyes and ears.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 199)
Yet dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause, And can say nothing--no, not for a king Upon whose property and most dear life damned defeat was made.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 200)
Am a coward? Who calls me "villain"? breaks my pate across?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 201)
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face? Tweaks me by the nose?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 202)
gives me the lie i' th' throat As deep as to the lungs?(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 203)
Who does me this? Ha! 'Swounds, should take it! For it cannot be But am pigeon-livered and lack gall To make oppression bitter, or ere this should have fatted all the region kites With this slave's offal.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 204)
Bloody, bawdy villain! Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 205)
vengeance! Why, what an ass am This is most brave, That the son of a dear father murdered, Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell, Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words And fall a-cursing like a very drab, stallion!(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 206)
Fie upon 't! Foh! About, my brains!--Hum, have heard That guilty creatures sitting at a play Have, by the very cunning of the scene, Been struck so to the soul that presently They have proclaimed their malefactions; For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak With most miraculous organ.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 207)
I'll have these players Play something like the murder of my father Before mine uncle.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 208)
I'll observe his looks; I'll tent him to the quick.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 209)
If he do blench, know my course. The spirit that have seen May be a devil, and the devil hath power assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps, Out of my weakness and my melancholy, As he is very potent with such spirits, Abuses me to damn me.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 210)
I'll have grounds More relative than this. The play's the thing Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.(Hamlet, Act 1, Scene 211)
What, Lucius, ho!-- cannot by the progress of the stars Give guess how near to day.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 0)
--Lucius, say!-- would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 1)
-- When, Lucius, when? Awake, say! What, Lucius!     Called you, my lord?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 2)
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius. When it is lighted, come and call me here.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 3)
will, my lord.   It must be by his death. And for my part know no personal cause to spurn at him, But for the general.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 4)
He would be crowned: How that might change his nature, there's the question.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 5)
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder, And that craves wary walking.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 6)
Crown him that, And then grant we put a sting in him That at his will he may do danger with.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 7)
Th' abuse of greatness is when it disjoins Remorse from power.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 8)
And, to speak truth of Caesar, have not known when his affections swayed More than his reason.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 9)
But 'tis a common proof That lowliness is young ambition's ladder, Whereto the climber-upward turns his face; But, when he once attains the upmost round, He then unto the ladder turns his back, Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees By which he did ascend.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 10)
So Caesar may. Then, lest he may, prevent. And since the quarrel Will bear no color for the thing he is, Fashion it thus: that what he is, augmented, Would run to these and these extremities.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 11)
And therefore think him as a serpent's egg, Which, hatched, would, as his kind, grow mischievous, And kill him in the shell.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 12)
The taper burneth in your closet, sir. Searching the window for a flint, found This paper, thus sealed up, and am sure It did not lie there when went to bed.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 13)
Get you to bed again. It is not day. Is not tomorrow, boy, the ides of March?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 14)
know not, sir.   Look in the calendar, and bring me word.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 15)
will, sir.   The exhalations, whizzing in the air, Give so much light that may read by them.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 16)
Brutus, thou sleep'st. Awake, and see thyself! Shall Rome, etc.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 17)
Speak, strike, redress! "Brutus, thou sleep'st. Awake.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 18)
" Such instigations have been often dropped Where have took them up.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 19)
"Shall Rome, etc." Thus must piece it out: Shall Rome stand under one man's awe?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 20)
What, Rome? My ancestors did from the streets of Rome The Tarquin drive when he was called a king.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 21)
"Speak, strike, redress!" Am entreated To speak and strike?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 22)
Rome, make thee promise, If the redress will follow, thou receivest Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 23)
Sir, March is wasted fifteen days.    'Tis good.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 24)
Go to the gate; somebody knocks.  Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar, have not slept.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 25)
Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 26)
The genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council, and the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an insurrection.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 27)
Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door, Who doth desire to see you.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 28)
Is he alone?   No, sir. There are more with him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 29)
Do you know them?   No, sir. Their hats are plucked about their ears, And half their faces buried in their cloaks, That by no means may discover them By any mark of favor.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 30)
Let 'em enter. They are the faction. conspiracy, Sham'st thou to show thy dang'rous brow by night, When evils are most free?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 31)
then, by day Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough To mask thy monstrous visage?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 32)
Seek none, conspiracy. Hide it in smiles and affability; For if thou path, thy native semblance on, Not Erebus itself were dim enough To hide thee from prevention.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 33)
think we are too bold upon your rest. Good morrow, Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 34)
Do we trouble you?   have been up this hour, awake all night.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 35)
Know these men that come along with you?   Yes, every man of them; and no man here But honors you, and every one doth wish You had but that opinion of yourself Which every noble Roman bears of you.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 36)
This is Trebonius.  He is welcome hither.   This, Decius Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 37)
He is welcome too.   This, Casca; this, Cinna; and this, Metellus Cimber.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 38)
They are all welcome. What watchful cares do interpose themselves Betwixt your eyes and night?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 39)
Shall entreat a word?    Here lies the east; doth not the day break here?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 40)
No.   pardon, sir, it doth; and yon gray lines That fret the clouds are messengers of day.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 41)
You shall confess that you are both deceived. Here, as point my sword, the sun arises, Which is a great way growing on the south, Weighing the youthful season of the year.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 42)
Some two months hence, up higher toward the north He first presents his fire, and the high east Stands, as the Capitol, directly here.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 43)
Give me your hands all over, one by one.   And let us swear our resolution.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 44)
No, not an oath. If not the face of men, The sufferance of our souls, the time's abuse-- If these be motives weak, break off betimes, And every man hence to his idle bed.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 45)
So let high-sighted tyranny range on Till each man drop by lottery.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 46)
But if these-- As am sure they do--bear fire enough To kindle cowards and to steel with valor The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen, What need we any spur but our own cause To prick us to redress?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 47)
What other bond Than secret Romans that have spoke the word And will not palter?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 48)
And what other oath Than honesty to honesty engaged That this shall be or we will fall for it?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 49)
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous, Old feeble carrions, and such suffering souls That welcome wrongs; unto bad causes swear Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor th' insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that or our cause or our performance Did need an oath, when every drop of blood That every Roman bears, and nobly bears, Is guilty of a several bastardy If he do break the smallest particle Of any promise that hath passed from him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 50)
But what of Cicero? Shall we sound him? think he will stand very strong with us.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 51)
Let us not leave him out.  No, by no means.   let us have him, for his silver hairs Will purchase us a good opinion And buy men's voices to commend our deeds.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 52)
It shall be said his judgment ruled our hands. Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear, But all be buried in his gravity.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 53)
name him not! Let us not break with him, For he will never follow anything That other men begin.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 54)
Then leave him out.  Indeed, he is not fit.   Shall no man else be touched, but only Caesar?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 55)
Decius, well urged. think it is not meet Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar, Should outlive Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 56)
We shall find of him shrewd contriver; and, you know, his means, If he improve them, may well stretch so far As to annoy us all; which to prevent, Let Antony and Caesar fall together.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 57)
Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius, To cut the head off and then hack the limbs, Like wrath in death and envy afterwards; For Antony is but a limb of Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 58)
Let's be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 59)
that we then could come by Caesar's spirit And not dismember Caesar!(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 60)
But, alas, Caesar must bleed for it. And, gentle friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 61)
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 62)
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do, Stir up their servants to an act of rage And after seem to chide 'em.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 63)
This shall make Our purpose necessary and not envious; Which so appearing to the common eyes, We shall be called purgers, not murderers.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 64)
And for Mark Antony, think not of him, For he can do no more than Caesar's arm When Caesar's head is off.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 65)
Yet fear him, For in the engrafted love he bears to Caesar--   Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 66)
If he love Caesar, all that he can do Is to himself: take thought and die for Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 67)
And that were much he should, for he is given To sports, to wildness, and much company.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 68)
There is no fear in him. Let him not die, For he will live and laugh at this hereafter.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 69)
Peace, count the clock.  The clock hath stricken three.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 70)
'Tis time to part.  But it is doubtful yet Whether Caesar will come forth today or no, For he is superstitious grown of late, Quite from the main opinion he held once Of fantasy, of dreams, and ceremonies.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 71)
It may be these apparent prodigies, The unaccustomed terror of this night, And the persuasion of his augurers May hold him from the Capitol today.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 72)
Never fear that. If he be so resolved, can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear That unicorns may be betrayed with trees, And bears with glasses, elephants with holes, Lions with toils, and men with flatterers.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 73)
But when tell him he hates flatterers, He says he does, being then most flattered.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 74)
Let me work, For can give his humor the true bent, And will bring him to the Capitol.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 75)
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.   By the eighth hour, is that the uttermost?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 76)
Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.   Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard, Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 77)
wonder none of you have thought of him.   Now, good Metellus, go along by him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 78)
He loves me well, and have given him reasons. Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 79)
The morning comes upon 's. We'll leave you, Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 80)
And, friends, disperse yourselves, but all remember What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 81)
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily. Let not our looks put on our purposes, But bear it, as our Roman actors do, With untired spirits and formal constancy.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 82)
And so good morrow to you every one.  Boy! Lucius!(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 83)
--Fast asleep? It is no matter. Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 84)
Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies Which busy care draws in the brains of men.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 85)
Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.     Brutus, my lord.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 86)
Portia! What mean you? Wherefore rise you now? It is not for your health thus to commit Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 87)
Nor for yours neither. You've ungently, Brutus, Stole from my bed.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 88)
And yesternight at supper You suddenly arose and walked about, Musing and sighing, with your arms across, And when asked you what the matter was, You stared upon me with ungentle looks.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 89)
urged you further; then you scratched your head And too impatiently stamped with your foot.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 90)
Yet insisted; yet you answered not, But with an angry wafture of your hand Gave sign for me to leave you.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 91)
So did, Fearing to strengthen that impatience Which seemed too much enkindled, and withal Hoping it was but an effect of humor, Which sometime hath his hour with every man.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 92)
It will not let you eat nor talk nor sleep, And could it work so much upon your shape As it hath much prevailed on your condition, should not know you Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 93)
Dear my lord, Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 94)
am not well in health, and that is all.   Brutus is wise and, were he not in health, He would embrace the means to come by it.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 95)
Why so do. Good Portia, go to bed.   Is Brutus sick?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 96)
And is it physical To walk unbraced and suck up the humors Of the dank morning?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 97)
What, is Brutus sick, And will he steal out of his wholesome bed To dare the vile contagion of the night And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air To add unto his sickness?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 98)
No, my Brutus, You have some sick offense within your mind, Which by the right and virtue of my place ought to know of.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 99)
And upon my knees charm you, by my once commended beauty, By all your vows of love, and that great vow Which did incorporate and make us one, That you unfold to me, your self, your half, Why you are heavy, and what men tonight Have had resort to you; for here have been Some six or seven who did hide their faces Even from darkness.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 100)
Kneel not, gentle Portia.    should not need, if you were gentle Brutus.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 101)
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus, Is it excepted should know no secrets That appertain to you?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 102)
Am your self But, as it were, in sort or limitation, To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed, And talk to you sometimes?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 103)
Dwell but in the suburbs Of your good pleasure? If it be no more, Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 104)
You are my true and honorable wife, As dear to me as are the ruddy drops That visit my sad heart.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 105)
If this were true, then should know this secret.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 106)
grant am a woman, but withal woman that Lord Brutus took to wife.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 107)
grant am a woman, but withal woman well-reputed, Cato's daughter.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 108)
Think you am no stronger than my sex, Being so fathered and so husbanded?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 109)
Tell me your counsels; will not disclose 'em. have made strong proof of my constancy, Giving myself a voluntary wound Here, in the thigh.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 110)
Can bear that with patience, And not my husband's secrets?(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 111)
you gods, Render me worthy of this noble wife! Hark, hark, one knocks.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 112)
Portia, go in awhile, And by and by thy bosom shall partake The secrets of my heart.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 113)
All my engagements will construe to thee, All the charactery of my sad brows.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 114)
Leave me with haste. Lucius, who 's that knocks?      Here is a sick man that would speak with you.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 115)
Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spoke of.-- Boy, stand aside.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 116)
Caius Ligarius, how?   Vouchsafe good morrow from a feeble tongue.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 117)
what a time have you chose out, brave Caius, To wear a kerchief!(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 118)
Would you were not sick!   am not sick, if Brutus have in hand Any exploit worthy the name of honor.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 119)
Such an exploit have in hand, Ligarius, Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 120)
By all the gods that Romans bow before, here discard my sickness.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 121)
Soul of Rome, Brave son derived from honorable loins, Thou like an exorcist hast conjured up My mortified spirit.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 122)
Now bid me run, And will strive with things impossible, Yea, get the better of them.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 123)
What's to do?   piece of work that will make sick men whole.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 124)
But are not some whole that we must make sick?   That must we also.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 125)
What it is, my Caius, shall unfold to thee as we are going To whom it must be done.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 126)
Set on your foot, And with a heart new-fired follow you To do know not what; but it sufficeth That Brutus leads me on.(Julius Caesar, Act 0, Scene 127)
Nor heaven nor Earth have been at peace tonight.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 0)
Thrice hath Calphurnia in her sleep cried out "Help ho, they murder Caesar!(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 1)
"--Who's within?     My lord.   Go bid the priests do present sacrifice, And bring me their opinions of success.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 2)
will, my lord.      What mean you, Caesar? Think you to walk forth?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 3)
You shall not stir out of your house today.   Caesar shall forth.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 4)
The things that threatened me Ne'er looked but on my back.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 5)
When they shall see The face of Caesar, they are vanished.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 6)
Caesar, never stood on ceremonies, Yet now they fright me.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 7)
There is one within, Besides the things that we have heard and seen, Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 8)
lioness hath whelped in the streets, And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 9)
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds In ranks and squadrons and right form of war, Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 10)
The noise of battle hurtled in the air, Horses did neigh, and dying men did groan, And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 11)
Caesar, these things are beyond all use, And do fear them.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 12)
What can be avoided Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 13)
Yet Caesar shall go forth, for these predictions Are to the world in general as to Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 14)
When beggars die there are no comets seen; The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 15)
Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 16)
Of all the wonders that yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear, Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 17)
What say the augurers?   They would not have you to stir forth today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 18)
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth, They could not find a heart within the beast.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 19)
The gods do this in shame of cowardice. Caesar should be a beast without a heart If he should stay at home today for fear.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 20)
No, Caesar shall not. Danger knows full well That Caesar is more dangerous than he.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 21)
We are two lions littered in one day, And the elder and more terrible.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 22)
And Caesar shall go forth.  Alas, my lord, Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 23)
Do not go forth today. Call it my fear That keeps you in the house, and not your own.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 24)
We'll send Mark Antony to the Senate House, And he shall say you are not well today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 25)
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.   Mark Antony shall say am not well, And for thy humor will stay at home.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 26)
Here's Decius Brutus; he shall tell them so.   Caesar, all hail!(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 27)
Good morrow, worthy Caesar. come to fetch you to the Senate House.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 28)
And you are come in very happy time To bear my greeting to the Senators And tell them that will not come today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 29)
Cannot is false, and that dare not, falser. will not come today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 30)
Tell them so, Decius.   Say he is sick.  Shall Caesar send a lie?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 31)
Have in conquest stretched mine arm so far, To be afeard to tell graybeards the truth?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 32)
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.   Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause, Lest be laughed at when tell them so.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 33)
The cause is in my will. will not come. That is enough to satisfy the Senate.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 34)
But for your private satisfaction, Because love you, will let you know.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 35)
Calphurnia here, my wife, stays me at home. She dreamt tonight she saw my statue, Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts, Did run pure blood; and many lusty Romans Came smiling and did bathe their hands in it.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 36)
And these does she apply for warnings and portents And evils imminent, and on her knee Hath begged that will stay at home today.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 37)
This dream is all amiss interpreted. It was a vision fair and fortunate.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 38)
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes, In which so many smiling Romans bathed, Signifies that from you great Rome shall suck Reviving blood, and that great men shall press For tinctures, stains, relics, and cognizance.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 39)
This by Calphurnia's dream is signified.   And this way have you well expounded it.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 40)
have, when you have heard what can say. And know it now: the Senate have concluded To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 41)
If you shall send them word you will not come, Their minds may change.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 42)
Besides, it were a mock Apt to be rendered, for someone to say "Break up the Senate till another time, When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 43)
" If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper "Lo, Caesar is afraid"?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 44)
Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love To your proceeding bids me tell you this, And reason to my love is liable.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 45)
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calphurnia!(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 46)
am ashamed did yield to them. Give me my robe, for will go.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 47)
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.   Good morrow, Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 48)
Welcome, Publius.-- What, Brutus, are you stirred so early too?(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 49)
-- Good morrow, Casca.--Caius Ligarius, Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy As that same ague which hath made you lean.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 50)
-- What is 't o'clock?  Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 51)
thank you for your pains and courtesy.    See, Antony that revels long a-nights Is notwithstanding up.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 52)
--Good morrow, Antony.  So to most noble Caesar.  Bid them prepare within.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 53)
-- am to blame to be thus waited for. Now, Cinna.--Now, Metellus.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 54)
--What, Trebonius, have an hour's talk in store for you.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 55)
Remember that you call on me today; Be near me that may remember you.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 56)
Caesar, will.  And so near will be That your best friends shall wish had been further.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 57)
Good friends, go in and taste some wine with me, And we, like friends, will straightway go together.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 58)
That every like is not the same, Caesar, The heart of Brutus earns to think upon.(Julius Caesar, Act 1, Scene 59)
2       Caesar, beware of Brutus, take heed of Cassius, come not near Casca, have an eye to Cinna, trust not Trebonius, mark well Metellus Cimber.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 0)
Decius Brutus loves thee not. Thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 1)
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is bent against Caesar.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 2)
If thou beest not immortal, look about you. Security gives way to conspiracy.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 3)
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover, Artemidorus Here will stand till Caesar pass along, And as a suitor will give him this.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 4)
My heart laments that virtue cannot live Out of the teeth of emulation.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 5)
If thou read this, Caesar, thou mayest live; If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.(Julius Caesar, Act 2, Scene 6)
prithee, boy, run to the Senate House. Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 0)
Why dost thou stay?  To know my errand, madam.   would have had thee there and here again Ere can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 1)
constancy, be strong upon my side; Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 2)
have a man's mind but a woman's might. How hard it is for women to keep counsel!(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 3)
-- Art thou here yet?  Madam, what should do? Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 4)
And so return to you, and nothing else?   Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well, For he went sickly forth.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 5)
And take good note What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 6)
Hark, boy, what noise is that?  hear none, madam.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 7)
Prithee, listen well. heard a bustling rumor like a fray, And the wind brings it from the Capitol.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 8)
Sooth, madam, hear nothing.      Come hither, fellow.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 9)
Which way hast thou been?  At mine own house, good lady.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 10)
What is 't o'clock?  About the ninth hour, lady.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 11)
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?   Madam, not yet.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 12)
go to take my stand To see him pass on to the Capitol.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 13)
Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?   That have, lady.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 14)
If it will please Caesar To be so good to Caesar as to hear me, shall beseech him to befriend himself.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 15)
Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 16)
None that know will be, much that fear may chance.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 17)
Good morrow to you.--Here the street is narrow. The throng that follows Caesar at the heels, Of senators, of praetors, common suitors, Will crowd a feeble man almost to death.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 18)
I'll get me to a place more void, and there Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 19)
must go in.  Ay me, how weak a thing The heart of woman is!(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 20)
Brutus, The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 21)
Sure the boy heard me.  Brutus hath a suit That Caesar will not grant.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 22)
grow faint.-- Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 23)
Say am merry. Come to me again And bring me word what he doth say to thee.(Julius Caesar, Act 3, Scene 24)
2     King of France, Louis the Dauphin, Constance, Arthur, and Attendants; at the other side, with Forces, Austria,     Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.(King John, Act 0, Scene 0)
-- Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood, Richard, that robbed the lion of his heart And fought the holy wars in Palestine, By this brave duke came early to his grave.(King John, Act 0, Scene 1)
And, for amends to his posterity, At our importance hither is he come To spread his colors, boy, in thy behalf, And to rebuke the usurpation Of thy unnatural uncle, English John.(King John, Act 0, Scene 2)
Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.   God shall forgive you Coeur de Lion's death The rather that you give his offspring life, Shadowing their right under your wings of war.(King John, Act 0, Scene 3)
give you welcome with a powerless hand But with a heart full of unstained love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 4)
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.   noble boy.(King John, Act 0, Scene 5)
Who would not do thee right?   Upon thy cheek lay this zealous kiss As seal to this indenture of my love: That to my home will no more return Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France, Together with that pale, that white-faced shore, Whose foot spurns back the ocean's roaring tides And coops from other lands her islanders, Even till that England, hedged in with the main, That water-walled bulwark, still secure And confident from foreign purposes, Even till that utmost corner of the West Salute thee for her king.(King John, Act 0, Scene 6)
Till then, fair boy, Will not think of home, but follow arms.(King John, Act 0, Scene 7)
take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks, Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength To make a more requital to your love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 8)
The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords In such a just and charitable war.(King John, Act 0, Scene 9)
Well, then, to work. Our cannon shall be bent Against the brows of this resisting town.(King John, Act 0, Scene 10)
Call for our chiefest men of discipline To cull the plots of best advantages.(King John, Act 0, Scene 11)
We'll lay before this town our royal bones, Wade to the marketplace in Frenchmen's blood, But we will make it subject to this boy.(King John, Act 0, Scene 12)
Stay for an answer to your embassy, Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood.(King John, Act 0, Scene 13)
My lord Chatillion may from England bring That right in peace which here we urge in war, And then we shall repent each drop of blood That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.(King John, Act 0, Scene 14)
wonder, lady! Lo, upon thy wish Our messenger Chatillion is arrived.(King John, Act 0, Scene 15)
-- What England says say briefly, gentle lord. We coldly pause for thee.(King John, Act 0, Scene 16)
Chatillion, speak.   Then turn your forces from this paltry siege And stir them up against a mightier task.(King John, Act 0, Scene 17)
England, impatient of your just demands, Hath put himself in arms.(King John, Act 0, Scene 18)
The adverse winds, Whose leisure have stayed, have given him time To land his legions all as soon as His marches are expedient to this town, His forces strong, his soldiers confident.(King John, Act 0, Scene 19)
With him along is come the Mother Queen, An Ate stirring him to blood and strife; With her her niece, the Lady Blanche of Spain; With them a bastard of the King's deceased.(King John, Act 0, Scene 20)
And all th' unsettled humors of the land-- Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries, With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens-- Have sold their fortunes at their native homes, Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs, To make a hazard of new fortunes here.(King John, Act 0, Scene 21)
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er Did never float upon the swelling tide To do offense and scathe in Christendom.(King John, Act 0, Scene 22)
The interruption of their churlish drums Cuts off more circumstance.(King John, Act 0, Scene 23)
They are at hand, To parley or to fight, therefore prepare.(King John, Act 0, Scene 24)
How much unlooked-for is this expedition.   By how much unexpected, by so much We must awake endeavor for defense, For courage mounteth with occasion.(King John, Act 0, Scene 25)
Let them be welcome, then. We are prepared.       Peace be to France, if France in peace permit Our just and lineal entrance to our own.(King John, Act 0, Scene 26)
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven, Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct Their proud contempt that beats his peace to heaven.(King John, Act 0, Scene 27)
Peace be to England, if that war return From France to England, there to live in peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 28)
England we love, and for that England's sake With burden of our armor here we sweat.(King John, Act 0, Scene 29)
This toil of ours should be a work of thine; But thou from loving England art so far That thou hast underwrought his lawful king, Cut off the sequence of posterity, Outfaced infant state, and done a rape Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.(King John, Act 0, Scene 30)
Look here upon thy brother Geoffrey's face.  These eyes, these brows, were molded out of his; This little abstract doth contain that large Which died in Geoffrey, and the hand of time Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.(King John, Act 0, Scene 31)
That Geoffrey was thy elder brother born, And this his son.(King John, Act 0, Scene 32)
England was Geoffrey's right, And this is Geoffrey's.(King John, Act 0, Scene 33)
In the name of God, How comes it then that thou art called a king, When living blood doth in these temples beat Which owe the crown that thou o'ermasterest?(King John, Act 0, Scene 34)
From whom hast thou this great commission, France, To draw my answer from thy articles?(King John, Act 0, Scene 35)
From that supernal judge that stirs good thoughts In any breast of strong authority To look into the blots and stains of right.(King John, Act 0, Scene 36)
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy, Under whose warrant impeach thy wrong, And by whose help mean to chastise it.(King John, Act 0, Scene 37)
Alack, thou dost usurp authority.   Excuse it is to beat usurping down.(King John, Act 0, Scene 38)
Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?   Let me make answer: thy usurping son.(King John, Act 0, Scene 39)
Out, insolent! Thy bastard shall be king That thou mayst be a queen and check the world.(King John, Act 0, Scene 40)
My bed was ever to thy son as true As thine was to thy husband, and this boy Liker in feature to his father Geoffrey Than thou and John, in manners being as like As rain to water or devil to his dam.(King John, Act 0, Scene 41)
My boy a bastard? By my soul, think His father never was so true begot.(King John, Act 0, Scene 42)
It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.   There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.(King John, Act 0, Scene 43)
There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.(King John, Act 0, Scene 44)
Peace!  Hear the crier!  What the devil art thou?(King John, Act 0, Scene 45)
One that will play the devil, sir, with you, An he may catch your hide and you alone.(King John, Act 0, Scene 46)
You are the hare of whom the proverb goes, Whose valor plucks dead lions by the beard.(King John, Act 0, Scene 47)
I'll smoke your skin-coat an catch you right. Sirrah, look to 't.(King John, Act 0, Scene 48)
faith, will, i' faith!   well did he become that lion's robe That did disrobe the lion of that robe.(King John, Act 0, Scene 49)
It lies as sightly on the back of him As great Alcides' shoes upon an ass.(King John, Act 0, Scene 50)
-- But, ass, I'll take that burden from your back Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.(King John, Act 0, Scene 51)
What cracker is this same that deafs our ears With this abundance of superfluous breath?(King John, Act 0, Scene 52)
Louis, determine what we shall do straight.   Women and fools, break off your conference.(King John, Act 0, Scene 53)
-- King John, this is the very sum of all: England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine, In right of Arthur do claim of thee.(King John, Act 0, Scene 54)
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?   My life as soon!(King John, Act 0, Scene 55)
do defy thee, France.-- Arthur of Brittany, yield thee to my hand, And out of my dear love I'll give thee more Than e'er the coward hand of France can win.(King John, Act 0, Scene 56)
Submit thee, boy.  Come to thy grandam, child.   Do, child, go to it grandam, child.(King John, Act 0, Scene 57)
Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig.(King John, Act 0, Scene 58)
There's a good grandam.  Good my mother, peace. would that were low laid in my grave.(King John, Act 0, Scene 59)
am not worth this coil that's made for me.   His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.(King John, Act 0, Scene 60)
Now shame upon you whe'er she does or no! His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames, Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes, Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee.(King John, Act 0, Scene 61)
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed To do him justice and revenge on you.(King John, Act 0, Scene 62)
Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and Earth!   Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and Earth, Call not me slanderer.(King John, Act 0, Scene 63)
Thou and thine usurp The dominations, royalties, and rights Of this oppressed boy.(King John, Act 0, Scene 64)
This is thy eldest son's son, Infortunate in nothing but in thee.(King John, Act 0, Scene 65)
Thy sins are visited in this poor child. The canon of the law is laid on him, Being but the second generation Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb.(King John, Act 0, Scene 66)
Bedlam, have done.  have but this to say, That he is not only plagued for her sin, But God hath made her sin and her the plague On this removed issue, plagued for her, And with her plague; her sin his injury, Her injury the beadle to her sin, All punished in the person of this child And all for her.(King John, Act 0, Scene 67)
plague upon her!   Thou unadvised scold, can produce will that bars the title of thy son.(King John, Act 0, Scene 68)
Ay, who doubts that? will--a wicked will, woman's will, a cankered grandam's will.(King John, Act 0, Scene 69)
Peace, lady. Pause, or be more temperate. It ill beseems this presence to cry aim To these ill-tuned repetitions.(King John, Act 0, Scene 70)
-- Some trumpet summon hither to the walls These men of Angiers.(King John, Act 0, Scene 71)
Let us hear them speak Whose title they admit, Arthur's or John's.(King John, Act 0, Scene 72)
Who is it that hath warned us to the walls?(King John, Act 0, Scene 73)
'Tis France, for England.  England, for itself.(King John, Act 0, Scene 74)
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects--   You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects, Our trumpet called you to this gentle parle--   For our advantage.(King John, Act 0, Scene 75)
Therefore hear us first. These flags of France that are advanced here Before the eye and prospect of your town, Have hither marched to your endamagement.(King John, Act 0, Scene 76)
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath, And ready mounted are they to spit forth Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls.(King John, Act 0, Scene 77)
All preparation for a bloody siege And merciless proceeding by these French Confronts your city's eyes, your winking gates, And, but for our approach, those sleeping stones, That as a waist doth girdle you about, By the compulsion of their ordinance By this time from their fixed beds of lime Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made For bloody power to rush upon your peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 78)
But on the sight of us your lawful king, Who painfully with much expedient march Have brought a countercheck before your gates To save unscratched your city's threatened cheeks, Behold, the French, amazed, vouchsafe a parle.(King John, Act 0, Scene 79)
And now, instead of bullets wrapped in fire To make a shaking fever in your walls, They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke To make a faithless error in your ears, Which trust accordingly, kind citizens, And let us in.(King John, Act 0, Scene 80)
Your king, whose labored spirits Forwearied in this action of swift speed, Craves harborage within your city walls.(King John, Act 0, Scene 81)
When have said, make answer to us both.  Lo, in this right hand, whose protection Is most divinely vowed upon the right Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet, Son to the elder brother of this man, And king o'er him and all that he enjoys.(King John, Act 0, Scene 82)
For this downtrodden equity we tread In warlike march these greens before your town, Being no further enemy to you Than the constraint of hospitable zeal In the relief of this oppressed child Religiously provokes.(King John, Act 0, Scene 83)
Be pleased then To pay that duty which you truly owe To him that owes it, namely, this young prince, And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear Save in aspect, hath all offense sealed up.(King John, Act 0, Scene 84)
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent Against th' invulnerable clouds of heaven, And with a blessed and unvexed retire, With unbacked swords and helmets all unbruised, We will bear home that lusty blood again Which here we came to spout against your town, And leave your children, wives, and you in peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 85)
But if you fondly pass our proffered offer, 'Tis not the roundure of your old-faced walls Can hide you from our messengers of war, Though all these English and their discipline Were harbored in their rude circumference.(King John, Act 0, Scene 86)
Then tell us, shall your city call us lord In that behalf which we have challenged it?(King John, Act 0, Scene 87)
Or shall we give the signal to our rage And stalk in blood to our possession?(King John, Act 0, Scene 88)
In brief, we are the King of England's subjects.(King John, Act 0, Scene 89)
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.   Acknowledge then the King and let me in.(King John, Act 0, Scene 90)
That can we not. But he that proves the King, To him will we prove loyal.(King John, Act 0, Scene 91)
Till that time Have we rammed up our gates against the world.(King John, Act 0, Scene 92)
Doth not the crown of England prove the King? And if not that, bring you witnesses, Twice fifteen thousand hearts of England's breed--  Bastards and else.(King John, Act 0, Scene 93)
To verify our title with their lives.   As many and as wellborn bloods as those--  Some bastards too.(King John, Act 0, Scene 94)
Stand in his face to contradict his claim.   Till you compound whose right is worthiest, We for the worthiest hold the right from both.(King John, Act 0, Scene 95)
Then God forgive the sin of all those souls That to their everlasting residence, Before the dew of evening fall, shall fleet In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king.(King John, Act 0, Scene 96)
Amen, amen.--Mount, chevaliers! To arms!   Saint George, that swinged the dragon and e'er since Sits on 's horseback at mine hostess' door, Teach us some fence!(King John, Act 0, Scene 97)
Sirrah, were at home At your den, sirrah, with your lioness, would set an ox head to your lion's hide And make a monster of you.(King John, Act 0, Scene 98)
Peace! No more.   tremble, for you hear the lion roar.(King John, Act 0, Scene 99)
Up higher to the plain, where we'll set forth In best appointment all our regiments.(King John, Act 0, Scene 100)
Speed, then, to take advantage of the field.   It shall be so, and at the other hill Command the rest to stand.(King John, Act 0, Scene 101)
God and our right!        You men of Angiers, open wide your gates, And let young Arthur, Duke of Brittany, in, Who by the hand of France this day hath made Much work for tears in many an English mother, Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground.(King John, Act 0, Scene 102)
Many a widow's husband groveling lies Coldly embracing the discolored earth, And victory with little loss doth play Upon the dancing banners of the French, Who are at hand, triumphantly displayed, To enter conquerors and to proclaim Arthur of Brittany England's king and yours.(King John, Act 0, Scene 103)
Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells!(King John, Act 0, Scene 104)
King John, your king and England's, doth approach, Commander of this hot malicious day.(King John, Act 0, Scene 105)
Their armors, that marched hence so silver bright, Hither return all gilt with Frenchmen's blood.(King John, Act 0, Scene 106)
There stuck no plume in any English crest That is removed by a staff of France.(King John, Act 0, Scene 107)
Our colors do return in those same hands That did display them when we first marched forth, And like a jolly troop of huntsmen come Our lusty English, all with purpled hands, Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes.(King John, Act 0, Scene 108)
Open your gates, and give the victors way.   Heralds, from off our towers we might behold From first to last the onset and retire Of both your armies, whose equality By our best eyes cannot be censured.(King John, Act 0, Scene 109)
Blood hath bought blood, and blows have answered blows, Strength matched with strength, and power confronted power.(King John, Act 0, Scene 110)
Both are alike, and both alike we like. One must prove greatest.(King John, Act 0, Scene 111)
While they weigh so even, We hold our town for neither, yet for both.(King John, Act 0, Scene 112)
Bastard, Queen Eleanor, Blanche, and Salisbury;     France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?(King John, Act 0, Scene 113)
Say, shall the current of our right roam on, Whose passage, vexed with thy impediment, Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell With course disturbed even thy confining shores, Unless thou let his silver water keep peaceful progress to the ocean?(King John, Act 0, Scene 114)
England, thou hast not saved one drop of blood In this hot trial more than we of France, Rather lost more.(King John, Act 0, Scene 115)
And by this hand swear That sways the earth this climate overlooks, Before we will lay down our just-borne arms, We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear, Or add a royal number to the dead, Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.(King John, Act 0, Scene 116)
Ha, majesty! How high thy glory towers When the rich blood of kings is set on fire!(King John, Act 0, Scene 117)
now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel, The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs, And now he feasts, mousing the flesh of men In undetermined differences of kings.(King John, Act 0, Scene 118)
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus? Cry havoc, kings!(King John, Act 0, Scene 119)
Back to the stained field, You equal potents, fiery-kindled spirits.(King John, Act 0, Scene 120)
Then let confusion of one part confirm The other's peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 121)
Till then, blows, blood, and death!   Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?(King John, Act 0, Scene 122)
Speak, citizens, for England. Who's your king?   The King of England, when we know the King.(King John, Act 0, Scene 123)
Know him in us, that here hold up his right.   In us, that are our own great deputy And bear possession of our person here, Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.(King John, Act 0, Scene 124)
greater power than we denies all this, And till it be undoubted, we do lock Our former scruple in our strong-barred gates, Kings of our fear, until our fears resolved Be by some certain king purged and deposed.(King John, Act 0, Scene 125)
By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings, And stand securely on their battlements As in a theater, whence they gape and point At your industrious scenes and acts of death.(King John, Act 0, Scene 126)
Your royal presences, be ruled by me: Do like the mutines of Jerusalem, Be friends awhile, and both conjointly bend Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town.(King John, Act 0, Scene 127)
By east and west let France and England mount Their battering cannon charged to the mouths, Till their soul-fearing clamors have brawled down The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city.(King John, Act 0, Scene 128)
I'd play incessantly upon these jades, Even till unfenced desolation Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.(King John, Act 0, Scene 129)
That done, dissever your united strengths And part your mingled colors once again; Turn face to face and bloody point to point.(King John, Act 0, Scene 130)
Then in a moment Fortune shall cull forth Out of one side her happy minion, To whom in favor she shall give the day And kiss him with a glorious victory.(King John, Act 0, Scene 131)
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states? Smacks it not something of the policy?(King John, Act 0, Scene 132)
Now by the sky that hangs above our heads, like it well.(King John, Act 0, Scene 133)
France, shall we knit our powers And lay this Angiers even with the ground, Then after fight who shall be king of it?(King John, Act 0, Scene 134)
An if thou hast the mettle of a king, Being wronged as we are by this peevish town, Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery, As we will ours, against these saucy walls, And when that we have dashed them to the ground, Why, then, defy each other and pell-mell Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.(King John, Act 0, Scene 135)
Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?   We from the west will send destruction Into this city's bosom.(King John, Act 0, Scene 136)
from the north.  Our thunder from the south Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.(King John, Act 0, Scene 137)
prudent discipline! From north to south, Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth.(King John, Act 0, Scene 138)
I'll stir them to it. -- Come, away, away!   Hear us, great kings.(King John, Act 0, Scene 139)
Vouchsafe awhile to stay, And shall show you peace and fair-faced league, Win you this city without stroke or wound, Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds That here come sacrifices for the field.(King John, Act 0, Scene 140)
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.   Speak on with favor.(King John, Act 0, Scene 141)
We are bent to hear.   That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanche, Is near to England.(King John, Act 0, Scene 142)
Look upon the years Of Louis the Dauphin and that lovely maid.(King John, Act 0, Scene 143)
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty, Where should he find it fairer than in Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 144)
If zealous love should go in search of virtue, Where should he find it purer than in Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 145)
If love ambitious sought a match of birth, Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanche?(King John, Act 0, Scene 146)
Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth, Is the young Dauphin every way complete.(King John, Act 0, Scene 147)
If not complete of, say he is not she, And she again wants nothing, to name want, If want it be not that she is not he.(King John, Act 0, Scene 148)
He is the half part of a blessed man, Left to be finished by such as she, And she a fair divided excellence, Whose fullness of perfection lies in him.(King John, Act 0, Scene 149)
two such silver currents when they join Do glorify the banks that bound them in, And two such shores to two such streams made one, Two such controlling bounds shall you be, kings, To these two princes, if you marry them.(King John, Act 0, Scene 150)
This union shall do more than battery can To our fast-closed gates, for at this match, With swifter spleen than powder can enforce, The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope And give you entrance.(King John, Act 0, Scene 151)
But without this match, The sea enraged is not half so deaf, Lions more confident, mountains and rocks More free from motion, no, not Death himself In mortal fury half so peremptory As we to keep this city.(King John, Act 0, Scene 152)
Here's a stay That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death Out of his rags!(King John, Act 0, Scene 153)
Here's a large mouth indeed That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas; Talks as familiarly of roaring lions As maids of thirteen do of puppy dogs.(King John, Act 0, Scene 154)
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood? He speaks plain cannon fire, and smoke, and bounce.(King John, Act 0, Scene 155)
He gives the bastinado with his tongue. Our ears are cudgeled.(King John, Act 0, Scene 156)
Not a word of his But buffets better than a fist of France.(King John, Act 0, Scene 157)
Zounds, was never so bethumped with words Since first called my brother's father Dad.(King John, Act 0, Scene 158)
Son, list to this conjunction; make this match.(King John, Act 0, Scene 159)
Give with our niece a dowry large enough, For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie Thy now unsured assurance to the crown That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit.(King John, Act 0, Scene 160)
see a yielding in the looks of France. Mark how they whisper.(King John, Act 0, Scene 161)
Urge them while their souls Are capable of this ambition, Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath Of soft petitions, pity, and remorse, Cool and congeal again to what it was.(King John, Act 0, Scene 162)
Why answer not the double majesties This friendly treaty of our threatened town?(King John, Act 0, Scene 163)
Speak England first, that hath been forward first To speak unto this city.(King John, Act 0, Scene 164)
What say you?   If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son, Can in this book of beauty read love," Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen.(King John, Act 0, Scene 165)
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poitiers, And all that we upon this side the sea-- Except this city now by us besieged-- Find liable to our crown and dignity, Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich In titles, honors, and promotions, As she in beauty, education, blood, Holds hand with any princess of the world.(King John, Act 0, Scene 166)
What sayst thou, boy? Look in the lady's face.   do, my lord, and in her eye find wonder or a wondrous miracle, The shadow of myself formed in her eye, Which, being but the shadow of your son, Becomes a sun and makes your son a shadow.(King John, Act 0, Scene 167)
do protest never loved myself Till now infixed beheld myself Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.(King John, Act 0, Scene 168)
"Drawn in the flattering table of her eye"? Hanged in the frowning wrinkle of her brow And quartered in her heart!(King John, Act 0, Scene 169)
He doth espy Himself love's traitor. This is pity now, That hanged and drawn and quartered there should be In such a love so vile a lout as he.(King John, Act 0, Scene 170)
My uncle's will in this respect is mine. If he see aught in you that makes him like, That anything he sees which moves his liking can with ease translate it to my will.(King John, Act 0, Scene 171)
Or if you will, to speak more properly, will enforce it eas'ly to my love.(King John, Act 0, Scene 172)
Further will not flatter you, my lord, That all see in you is worthy love, Than this: that nothing do see in you, Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge, That can find should merit any hate.(King John, Act 0, Scene 173)
What say these young ones? What say you, my niece?(King John, Act 0, Scene 174)
That she is bound in honor still to do What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.(King John, Act 0, Scene 175)
Speak then, Prince Dauphin. Can you love this lady?(King John, Act 0, Scene 176)
Nay, ask me if can refrain from love, For do love her most unfeignedly.(King John, Act 0, Scene 177)
Then do give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine, Poitiers and Anjou, these five provinces With her to thee, and this addition more: Full thirty thousand marks of English coin.(King John, Act 0, Scene 178)
-- Philip of France, if thou be pleased withal, Command thy son and daughter to join hands.(King John, Act 0, Scene 179)
It likes us well.--Young princes, close your hands.(King John, Act 0, Scene 180)
And your lips too, for am well assured That did so when was first assured.(King John, Act 0, Scene 181)
Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates. Let in that amity which you have made, For at Saint Mary's Chapel presently The rites of marriage shall be solemnized.(King John, Act 0, Scene 182)
-- Is not the Lady Constance in this troop? know she is not, for this match made up Her presence would have interrupted much.(King John, Act 0, Scene 183)
Where is she and her son? Tell me, who knows.   She is sad and passionate at your Highness' tent.(King John, Act 0, Scene 184)
And by my faith, this league that we have made Will give her sadness very little cure.(King John, Act 0, Scene 185)
-- Brother of England, how may we content This widow lady?(King John, Act 0, Scene 186)
In her right we came, Which we, God knows, have turned another way To our own vantage.(King John, Act 0, Scene 187)
We will heal up all, For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Brittany And Earl of Richmond, and this rich, fair town We make him lord of.(King John, Act 0, Scene 188)
--Call the Lady Constance. Some speedy messenger bid her repair To our solemnity.(King John, Act 0, Scene 189)
trust we shall, If not fill up the measure of her will, Yet in some measure satisfy her so That we shall stop her exclamation.(King John, Act 0, Scene 190)
Go we as well as haste will suffer us To this unlooked-for, unprepared pomp.(King John, Act 0, Scene 191)
Mad world, mad kings, mad composition! John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole, Hath willingly departed with a part; And France, whose armor conscience buckled on, Whom zeal and charity brought to the field As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil, That broker that still breaks the pate of faith, That daily break-vow, he that wins of all, Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids-- Who having no external thing to lose But the word "maid," cheats the poor maid of that-- That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity, Commodity, the bias of the world-- The world, who of itself is peised well, Made to run even upon even ground, Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias, This sway of motion, this Commodity, Makes it take head from all indifferency, From all direction, purpose, course, intent.(King John, Act 0, Scene 192)
And this same bias, this Commodity, This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word, Clapped on the outward eye of fickle France, Hath drawn him from his own determined aid, From a resolved and honorable war To a most base and vile-concluded peace.(King John, Act 0, Scene 193)
And why rail on this Commodity? But for because he hath not wooed me yet.(King John, Act 0, Scene 194)
Not that have the power to clutch my hand When his fair angels would salute my palm, But for my hand, as unattempted yet, Like a poor beggar raileth on the rich.(King John, Act 0, Scene 195)
Well, whiles am a beggar, will rail And say there is no sin but to be rich; And being rich, my virtue then shall be To say there is no vice but beggary.(King John, Act 0, Scene 196)
Since kings break faith upon Commodity, Gain, be my lord, for will worship thee!(King John, Act 0, Scene 197)
Ladies (Rosaline, Maria, and Katherine), Boyet     Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 0)
Consider who the King your father sends, To whom he sends, and what's his embassy.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 1)
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem, To parley with the sole inheritor Of all perfections that a man may owe, Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 2)
Be now as prodigal of all dear grace As nature was in making graces dear When she did starve the general world besides And prodigally gave them all to you.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 3)
Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean, Needs not the painted flourish of your praise.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 4)
Beauty is bought by judgment of the eye, Not uttered by base sale of chapmen's tongues.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 5)
am less proud to hear you tell my worth Than you much willing to be counted wise In spending your wit in the praise of mine.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 6)
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet, You are not ignorant all-telling fame Doth noise abroad Navarre hath made a vow, Till painful study shall outwear three years, No woman may approach his silent court.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 7)
Therefore to 's seemeth it a needful course, Before we enter his forbidden gates, To know his pleasure, and in that behalf, Bold of your worthiness, we single you As our best-moving fair solicitor.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 8)
Tell him the daughter of the King of France On serious business craving quick dispatch, Importunes personal conference with his Grace.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 9)
Haste, signify so much, while we attend, Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 10)
Proud of employment, willingly go.   All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 11)
Who are the votaries, my loving lords, That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 12)
Lord Longaville is one.  Know you the man?   know him, madam.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 13)
At a marriage feast Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized In Normandy, saw this Longaville.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 14)
man of sovereign parts he is esteemed, Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 15)
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well. The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss, If virtue's gloss will stain with any soil, Is a sharp wit matched with too blunt a will, Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills It should none spare that come within his power.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 16)
Some merry mocking lord, belike. Is 't so?   They say so most that most his humors know.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 17)
Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow. Who are the rest?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 18)
The young Dumaine, a well-accomplished youth, Of all that virtue love for virtue loved.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 19)
Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill; For he hath wit to make an ill shape good, And shape to win grace though he had no wit.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 20)
saw him at the Duke Alanson's once, And much too little of that good saw Is my report to his great worthiness.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 21)
Another of these students at that time Was there with him, if have heard a truth.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 22)
Berowne they call him, but a merrier man, Within the limit of becoming mirth, never spent an hour's talk withal.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 23)
His eye begets occasion for his wit, For every object that the one doth catch The other turns to a mirth-moving jest, Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor, Delivers in such apt and gracious words That aged ears play truant at his tales, And younger hearings are quite ravished, So sweet and voluble is his discourse.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 24)
God bless my ladies, are they all in love, That every one her own hath garnished With such bedecking ornaments of praise?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 25)
Here comes Boyet.     Now, what admittance, lord?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 26)
Navarre had notice of your fair approach, And he and his competitors in oath Were all addressed to meet you, gentle lady, Before came.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 27)
Marry, thus much have learned: He rather means to lodge you in the field, Like one that comes here to besiege his court, Than seek a dispensation for his oath To let you enter his unpeopled house.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 28)
Here comes Navarre.  Fair Princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 29)
"Fair" give you back again, and "welcome" have not yet.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 30)
The roof of this court is too high to be yours, and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 31)
You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.   will be welcome, then.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 32)
Conduct me thither.   Hear me, dear lady. have sworn an oath.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 33)
Our Lady help my lord! He'll be forsworn.   Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 34)
Why, will shall break it, will and nothing else.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 35)
Your Ladyship is ignorant what it is.   Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise, Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 36)
hear your Grace hath sworn out housekeeping. 'Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord, And sin to break it.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 37)
But pardon me, am too sudden bold. To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 38)
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming, And suddenly resolve me in my suit.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 39)
Madam, will, if suddenly may.   You will the sooner that were away, For you'll prove perjured if you make me stay.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 40)
Did not dance with you in Brabant once?   Did not dance with you in Brabant once?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 41)
know you did.  How needless was it then To ask the question.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 42)
You must not be so quick.   'Tis long of you that spur me with such questions.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 43)
Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast; 'twill tire.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 44)
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.   What time o' day?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 45)
The hour that fools should ask.  Now fair befall your mask.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 46)
Fair fall the face it covers.  And send you many lovers.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 47)
Amen, so you be none.  Nay, then, will be gone.   Madam, your father here doth intimate The payment of a hundred thousand crowns, Being but the one half of an entire sum Disbursed by my father in his wars.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 48)
But say that he or we, as neither have, Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid hundred thousand more, in surety of the which One part of Aquitaine is bound to us, Although not valued to the money's worth.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 49)
If then the King your father will restore But that one half which is unsatisfied, We will give up our right in Aquitaine, And hold fair friendship with his Majesty.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 50)
But that, it seems, he little purposeth; For here he doth demand to have repaid hundred thousand crowns, and not demands, On payment of a hundred thousand crowns, To have his title live in Aquitaine-- Which we much rather had depart withal, And have the money by our father lent, Than Aquitaine, so gelded as it is.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 51)
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far From reason's yielding, your fair self should make yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast, And go well satisfied to France again.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 52)
You do the King my father too much wrong, And wrong the reputation of your name, In so unseeming to confess receipt Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 53)
do protest never heard of it; And if you prove it, I'll repay it back Or yield up Aquitaine.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 54)
We arrest your word.-- Boyet, you can produce acquittances For such a sum from special officers Of Charles his father.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 55)
Satisfy me so.   So please your Grace, the packet is not come Where that and other specialties are bound.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 56)
Tomorrow you shall have a sight of them.   It shall suffice me; at which interview All liberal reason will yield unto.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 57)
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand As honor (without breach of honor) may Make tender of to thy true worthiness.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 58)
You may not come, fair princess, within my gates, But here without you shall be so received As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart, Though so denied fair harbor in my house.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 59)
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell. Tomorrow shall we visit you again.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 60)
Sweet health and fair desires consort your Grace.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 61)
Thy own wish wish thee in every place.    Lady, will commend you to my own heart.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 62)
Pray you, do my commendations. would be glad to see it.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 63)
would you heard it groan.  Is the fool sick?  Sick at the heart.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 64)
Alack, let it blood.  Would that do it good?  My physic says "ay.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 65)
"  Will you prick 't with your eye?  No point, with my knife.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 66)
Now God save thy life.  And yours from long living.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 67)
cannot stay thanksgiving.      Sir, pray you, a word.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 68)
What lady is that same?   The heir of Alanson, Katherine her name.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 69)
gallant lady, monsieur. Fare you well.      beseech you, a word.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 70)
What is she in the white?   woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 71)
Perchance light in the light. desire her name.   She hath but one for herself; to desire that were a shame.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 72)
Pray you, sir, whose daughter?  Her mother's, have heard.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 73)
God's blessing on your beard!  Good sir, be not offended.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 74)
She is an heir of Falconbridge.  Nay, my choler is ended.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 75)
She is a most sweet lady.  Not unlike, sir, that may be.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 76)
What's her name in the cap?  Rosaline, by good hap.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 77)
Is she wedded or no?  To her will, sir, or so.  You are welcome, sir.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 78)
Adieu.  Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.    That last is Berowne, the merry madcap lord.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 79)
Not a word with him but a jest.  And every jest but a word.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 80)
It was well done of you to take him at his word.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 81)
was as willing to grapple as he was to board.   Two hot sheeps, marry.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 82)
And wherefore not ships? No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 83)
You sheep and pasture. Shall that finish the jest?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 84)
So you grant pasture for me.  Not so, gentle beast, My lips are no common, though several they be.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 85)
Belonging to whom?  To my fortunes and me.   Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles, agree, This civil war of wits were much better used On Navarre and his bookmen, for here 'tis abused.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 86)
If my observation, which very seldom lies, By the heart's still rhetoric, disclosed wi' th' eyes, Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 87)
With what?   With that which we lovers entitle "affected.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 88)
"  Your reason?   Why, all his behaviors did make their retire To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 89)
His heart like an agate with your print impressed, Proud with his form, in his eye pride expressed.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 90)
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see, Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be; All senses to that sense did make their repair, To feel only looking on fairest of fair.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 91)
Methought all his senses were locked in his eye, As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy, Who, tend'ring their own worth from where they were glassed, Did point you to buy them along as you passed.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 92)
His face's own margent did quote such amazes That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 93)
I'll give you Aquitaine, and all that is his, An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 94)
Come, to our pavilion. Boyet is disposed.   But to speak that in words which his eye hath disclosed.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 95)
only have made a mouth of his eye By adding a tongue which know will not lie.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 96)
Thou art an old lovemonger and speakest skillfully.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 97)
He is Cupid's grandfather, and learns news of him.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 98)
Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 99)
Do you hear, my mad wenches?  No.  What then, do you see?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 100)
Ay, our way to be gone.  You are too hard for me.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 0, Scene 101)
3       Warble, child, make passionate my sense of hearing.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 0)
Concolinel.  Sweet air. Go, tenderness of years.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 1)
Take this key, give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately hither.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 2)
must employ him in a letter to my love.  Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 3)
How meanest thou? Brawling in French?  No, my complete master, but to jig off a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humor it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and sing a note, sometimes through the throat as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometimes through the nose as if you snuffed up love by smelling love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in your pocket like a man after the old painting; and keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 4)
These are compliments, these are humors; these betray nice wenches that would be betrayed without these, and make them men of note--do you note me?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 5)
--that most are affected to these.  How hast thou purchased this experience?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 6)
By my penny of observation.  But but  "The hobby-horse is forgot.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 7)
"  Call'st thou my love "hobby-horse"?  No, master.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 8)
The hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love perhaps a hackney.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 9)
--But have you forgot your love?  Almost had.  Negligent student, learn her by heart.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 10)
By heart and in heart, boy.  And out of heart, master.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 11)
All those three will prove.  What wilt thou prove?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 12)
man, if live; and this "by, in, and without," upon the instant: "by" heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by her; "in" heart you love her, because your heart is in love with her; and "out" of heart you love her, being out of heart that you cannot enjoy her.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 13)
am all these three.  And three times as much more,  and yet nothing at all.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 14)
Fetch hither the swain. He must carry me a letter.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 15)
message well sympathized--a horse to be ambassador for an ass.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 16)
Ha? Ha? What sayest thou?  Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse, for he is very slow-gaited.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 17)
But go.  The way is but short. Away!  As swift as lead, sir.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 18)
Thy meaning, pretty ingenious? Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 19)
Minime, honest master, or rather, master, no.   say lead is slow.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 20)
You are too swift, sir, to say so. Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 21)
Sweet smoke of rhetoric! He reputes me a cannon, and the bullet, that's he.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 22)
-- shoot thee at the swain.  Thump, then, and flee.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 23)
most acute juvenal, voluble and free of grace.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 24)
By thy favor, sweet welkin, must sigh in thy face.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 25)
Most rude melancholy, valor gives thee place. My herald is returned.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 26)
wonder, master! Here's a costard broken in a shin.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 27)
Some enigma, some riddle. Come, thy l'envoi begin.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 28)
No egma, no riddle, no l'envoi, no salve in the mail, sir.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 29)
sir, plantain, a plain plantain! No l'envoi, no l'envoi, no salve, sir, but a plantain.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 30)
By virtue, thou enforcest laughter; thy silly thought, my spleen.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 31)
The heaving of my lungs provokes me to ridiculous smiling.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 32)
pardon me, my stars! Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoi, and the word l'envoi for a salve?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 33)
Do the wise think them other? Is not l'envoi a salve?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 34)
No, page, it is an epilogue or discourse to make plain Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 35)
will example it: The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee Were still at odds, being but three.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 36)
There's the moral. Now the l'envoi.  will add the l'envoi.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 37)
Say the moral again.   The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee Were still at odds, being but three.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 38)
Until the goose came out of door And stayed the odds by adding four.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 39)
Now will begin your moral, and do you follow with my l'envoi.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 40)
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee Were still at odds, being but three.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 41)
Until the goose came out of door, Staying the odds by adding four.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 42)
good l'envoi, ending in the goose. Would you desire more?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 43)
The boy hath sold him a bargain--a goose, that's flat.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 44)
-- Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 45)
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 46)
Let me see: a fat l'envoi--ay, that's a fat goose.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 47)
Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 48)
By saying that a costard was broken in a shin. Then called you for the l'envoi.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 49)
True, and for a plantain. Thus came your argument in.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 50)
Then the boy's fat l'envoi, the goose that you bought; and he ended the market.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 51)
But tell me, how was there a costard broken in a shin?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 52)
will tell you sensibly.  Thou hast no feeling of it, Mote.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 53)
will speak that l'envoi. Costard, running out, that was safely within, Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 54)
We will talk no more of this matter.  Till there be more matter in the shin.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 55)
Sirrah Costard, will enfranchise thee.  marry me to one Frances!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 56)
smell some l'envoi, some goose, in this.  By my sweet soul, mean, setting thee at liberty, enfreedoming thy person.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 57)
Thou wert immured, restrained, captivated, bound.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 58)
True, true; and now you will be my purgation, and let me loose.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 59)
give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance, and, in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this: bear this significant to the country maid Jaquenetta.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 60)
There is remuneration for the best ward of mine honor is rewarding my dependents.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 61)
--Mote, follow.  Like the sequel, Signior Costard, adieu.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 62)
My sweet ounce of man's flesh, my incony Jew! Now will look to his remuneration.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 63)
"Remuneration"! that's the Latin word for three farthings.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 64)
Three farthings--remuneration. "What's the price of this inkle?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 65)
" "One penny." "No, I'll give you a remuneration." Why, it carries it!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 66)
Remuneration. Why, it is a fairer name than "French crown.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 67)
" will never buy and sell out of this word.     My good knave Costard, exceedingly well met.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 68)
Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man buy for a remuneration?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 69)
What is a remuneration?  Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 70)
Why then, three farthing worth of silk.  thank your Worship.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 71)
God be wi' you.   Stay, slave, must employ thee. As thou wilt win my favor, good my knave, Do one thing for me that shall entreat.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 72)
When would you have it done, sir?  This afternoon.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 73)
Well, will do it, sir. Fare you well.  Thou knowest not what it is.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 74)
shall know, sir, when have done it.  Why, villain, thou must know first.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 75)
will come to your Worship tomorrow morning.  It must be done this afternoon.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 76)
Hark, slave, it is but this: The Princess comes to hunt here in the park, And in her train there is a gentle lady.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 77)
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name, And Rosaline they call her.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 78)
Ask for her, And to her white hand see thou do commend This sealed-up counsel.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 79)
There's thy guerdon. Go.  Gardon.  sweet gardon! Better than remuneration, a 'levenpence farthing better!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 80)
Most sweet gardon. will do it, sir, in print. Gardon!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 81)
Remuneration!   And forsooth in love! that have been love's whip, very beadle to a humorous sigh, critic, nay, a nightwatch constable, domineering pedant o'er the boy, Than whom no mortal so magnificent.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 82)
This wimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy, This Signior Junior, giant dwarf, Dan Cupid, Regent of love rhymes, lord of folded arms, Th' anointed sovereign of sighs and groans, Liege of all loiterers and malcontents, Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces, Sole imperator and great general Of trotting paritors--O my little heart!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 83)
And to be a corporal of his field And wear his colors like a tumbler's hoop!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 84)
What? love, sue, seek a wife? woman, that is like a German clock, Still a-repairing, ever out of frame, And never going aright, being a watch, But being watched that it may still go right.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 85)
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all. And, among three, to love the worst of all, whitely wanton with a velvet brow, With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 86)
Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deed Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 87)
And to sigh for her, to watch for her, To pray for her!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 88)
Go to. It is a plague That Cupid will impose for my neglect Of his almighty dreadful little might.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 89)
Well, will love, write, sigh, pray, sue, groan. Some men must love my lady, and some Joan.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 9, Scene 90)
4         Was that the King that spurred his horse so hard Against the steep uprising of the hill?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 0)
know not, but think it was not he.   Whoe'er he was, he showed a mounting mind.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 1)
-- Well, lords, today we shall have our dispatch. Or Saturday we will return to France.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 2)
-- Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush That we must stand and play the murderer in?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 3)
Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice, stand where you may make the fairest shoot.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 4)
thank my beauty, am fair that shoot, And thereupon thou speakst "the fairest shoot.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 5)
"   Pardon me, madam, for meant not so.   What, what?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 6)
First praise me, and again say no? short-lived pride.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 7)
Not fair? Alack, for woe!   Yes, madam, fair.  Nay, never paint me now.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 8)
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow. Here, good my glass, take this for telling true.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 9)
Fair payment for foul words is more than due.   Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 10)
See, see, my beauty will be saved by merit. heresy in fair, fit for these days!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 11)
giving hand, though foul, shall have fair praise.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 12)
But come, the bow.  Now mercy goes to kill, And shooting well is then accounted ill.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 13)
Thus will save my credit in the shoot: Not wounding, pity would not let me do 't; If wounding, then it was to show my skill, That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 14)
And out of question so it is sometimes: Glory grows guilty of detested crimes, When for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part, We bend to that the working of the heart; As for praise alone now seek to spill The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 15)
Do not curst wives hold that self sovereignty Only for praise' sake when they strive to be Lords o'er their lords?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 16)
Only for praise; and praise we may afford To any lady that subdues a lord.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 17)
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.  God dig-you-den all!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 18)
Pray you, which is the head lady?  Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 19)
Which is the greatest lady, the highest?  The thickest and the tallest.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 20)
The thickest and the tallest: it is so, truth is truth.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 21)
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit, One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 22)
Are not you the chief woman? You are the thickest here.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 23)
What's your will, sir? What's your will?  have a letter from Monsieur Berowne to one Lady Rosaline.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 24)
thy letter, thy letter! He's a good friend of mine.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 25)
Stand aside, good bearer.--Boyet, you can carve. Break up this capon.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 26)
am bound to serve. This letter is mistook; it importeth none here.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 27)
It is writ to Jaquenetta.  We will read it, swear.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 28)
Break the neck of the wax, and everyone give ear.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 29)
By heaven, that thou art fair is most infallible, true that thou art beauteous, truth itself that thou art lovely.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 30)
More fairer than fair, beautiful than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have commiseration on thy heroical vassal.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 31)
The magnanimous and most illustrate King Cophetua set eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar Zenelophon; and he it was that might rightly say "Veni, vidi, vici," which to annothanize in the vulgar base and obscure vulgar!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 32)
) videlicet, "He came, see, and overcame": He came, one; see, two; overcame, three.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 33)
Who came? The King. Why did he come? To see. Why did he see?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 34)
To overcome. To whom came he? To the beggar. What saw he?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 35)
The beggar. Who overcame he? The beggar. The conclusion is victory.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 36)
On whose side? The King's. The captive is enriched.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 37)
On whose side? The beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 38)
On whose side? The King's--no, on both in one, or one in both.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 39)
am the King, for so stands the comparison; thou the beggar, for so witnesseth thy lowliness.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 40)
Shall command thy love? may. Shall enforce thy love?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 41)
could. Shall entreat thy love? will. What shalt thou exchange for rags?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 42)
Robes. For tittles? Titles. For thyself? Me. Thus expecting thy reply, profane my lips on thy foot, my eyes on thy picture, and my heart on thy every part.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 43)
Thine, in the dearest design of industry, Don Adriano de Armado.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 44)
Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar 'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 45)
Submissive fall his princely feet before, And he from forage will incline to play.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 46)
But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 47)
Food for his rage, repasture for his den.   What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 48)
What vane? What weathercock? Did you ever hear better?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 49)
am much deceived but remember the style.   Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 50)
This Armado is a Spaniard that keeps here in court, phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport To the Prince and his bookmates.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 51)
Thou, fellow, a word. Who gave thee this letter?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 52)
told you: my lord.   To whom shouldst thou give it?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 53)
From my lord to my lady.  From which lord to which lady?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 54)
From my Lord Berowne, a good master of mine, To a lady of France that he called Rosaline.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 55)
Thou hast mistaken his letter. Come, lords, away.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 56)
Here, sweet, put up this; 'twill be thine another day.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 57)
Forester exit. Boyet, Rosaline, Maria,    Who is the shooter?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 58)
Who is the shooter?  Shall teach you to know?   Ay, my continent of beauty.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 59)
Why, she that bears the bow. Finely put off.   My lady goes to kill horns, but if thou marry, Hang me by the neck if horns that year miscarry.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 60)
Finely put on.   Well, then, am the shooter.  And who is your deer?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 61)
If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 62)
Finely put on, indeed.   You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes at the brow.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 63)
But she herself is hit lower. Have hit her now?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 64)
Shall come upon thee with an old saying, that was a man when King Pippen of France was a little boy, as touching the hit it?(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 65)
So may answer thee with one as old, that was a woman when Queen Guinover of Britain was a little wench, as touching the hit it.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 66)
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it, Thou canst not hit it, my good man.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 67)
An cannot, cannot, cannot, An cannot, another can.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 68)
By my troth, most pleasant. How both did fit it!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 69)
mark marvelous well shot, for they both did hit it.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 70)
mark! mark but that mark. mark," says my lady. Let the mark have a prick in 't to mete at, if it may be.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 71)
Wide o' the bow hand! faith, your hand is out.   Indeed, he must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 72)
An if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 73)
Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 74)
Come, come, you talk greasily. Your lips grow foul.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 75)
She's too hard for you at pricks, sir. Challenge her to bowl.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 76)
fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 77)
By my soul, a swain, a most simple clown. Lord, Lord, how the ladies and have put him down.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 78)
my troth, most sweet jests, most incony vulgar wit, When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it were, so fit.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 79)
Armado o' th' one side, a most dainty man! To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 80)
To see him kiss his hand, and how most sweetly he will swear.(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 81)
And his page o' t' other side, that handful of wit!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 82)
Ah heavens, it is a most pathetical nit.  Sola, sola!(Love's Labor's Lost, Act 18, Scene 83)
Save thee, Curan.  And you, sir. have been with your father and given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan his duchess will be here with him this night.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 0)
How comes that?  Nay, know not. You have heard of the news abroad?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 1)
--I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but ear-kissing arguments.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 2)
Not Pray you, what are they?  Have you heard of no likely wars toward 'twixt the dukes of Cornwall and Albany?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 3)
Not a word.  You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 4)
The Duke be here tonight? The better, best. This weaves itself perforce into my business.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 5)
My father hath set guard to take my brother, And have one thing of a queasy question Which must act.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 6)
Briefness and fortune work!-- Brother, a word. Descend.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 7)
Brother, say!    My father watches. sir, fly this place!(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 8)
Intelligence is given where you are hid. You have now the good advantage of the night.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 9)
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 10)
He's coming hither, now, i' th' night, i' th' haste, And Regan with him.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 11)
Have you nothing said Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 12)
Advise yourself.  am sure on 't, not a word.   hear my father coming.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 13)
Pardon me. In cunning must draw my sword upon you.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 14)
Draw. Seem to defend yourself. Now, quit you well.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 15)
Yield! Come before my father! Light, hoa, here! Fly, brother.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 16)
--Torches, torches! --So, farewell. Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion Of my more fierce endeavor.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 17)
have seen drunkards Do more than this in sport. Father, father!(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 18)
Stop, stop! No help?     Now, Edmund, where's the villain?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 19)
Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out, Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon To stand auspicious mistress.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 20)
But where is he?   Look, sir, bleed.  Where is the villain, Edmund?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 21)
Fled this way, sir, when by no means he could--   Pursue him, ho!(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 22)
Go after.  By no means what?   Persuade me to the murder of your Lordship, But that told him the revenging gods 'Gainst parricides did all the thunder bend, Spoke with how manifold and strong a bond The child was bound to th' father--sir, in fine, Seeing how loathly opposite stood To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion With his prepared sword he charges home My unprovided body, lanced mine arm; And when he saw my best alarumed spirits, Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to th' encounter, Or whether ghasted by the noise made, Full suddenly he fled.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 23)
Let him fly far! Not in this land shall he remain uncaught, And found--dispatch.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 24)
The noble duke my master, My worthy arch and patron, comes tonight.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 25)
By his authority will proclaim it That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks, Bringing the murderous coward to the stake; He that conceals him, death.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 26)
When dissuaded him from his intent And found him pight to do it, with curst speech threatened to discover him.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 27)
He replied "Thou unpossessing bastard, dost thou think If would stand against thee, would the reposal Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee Make thy words faithed?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 28)
No. What should deny-- As this would, though thou didst produce My very character--I'd turn it all To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practice.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 29)
And thou must make a dullard of the world If they not thought the profits of my death Were very pregnant and potential spurs To make thee seek it.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 30)
"  strange and fastened villain! Would he deny his letter, said he?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 31)
never got him. Hark, the Duke's trumpets. know not why he comes.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 32)
All ports I'll bar. The villain shall not 'scape.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 33)
The Duke must grant me that. Besides, his picture will send far and near, that all the kingdom May have due note of him.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 34)
And of my land, Loyal and natural boy, I'll work the means To make thee capable.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 35)
How now, my noble friend? Since came hither, Which can call but now, have heard strange news.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 36)
If it be true, all vengeance comes too short Which can pursue th' offender.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 37)
How dost, my lord?   madam, my old heart is cracked; it's cracked.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 38)
What, did my father's godson seek your life? He whom my father named, your Edgar?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 39)
lady, lady, shame would have it hid!   Was he not companion with the riotous knights That tended upon my father?(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 40)
know not, madam. 'Tis too bad, too bad.   Yes, madam, he was of that consort.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 41)
No marvel, then, though he were ill affected. 'Tis they have put him on the old man's death, To have th' expense and waste of his revenues.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 42)
have this present evening from my sister Been well informed of them, and with such cautions That if they come to sojourn at my house I'll not be there.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 43)
Nor assure thee, Regan.-- Edmund, hear that you have shown your father childlike office.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 44)
It was my duty, sir.   He did bewray his practice, and received This hurt you see striving to apprehend him.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 45)
Is he pursued?  Ay, my good lord.   If he be taken, he shall never more Be feared of doing harm.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 46)
Make your own purpose, How in my strength you please.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 47)
--For you, Edmund, Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant So much commend itself, you shall be ours.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 48)
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need. You we first seize on.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 49)
shall serve you, sir, Truly, however else.  For him thank your Grace.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 50)
You know not why we came to visit you--   Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 51)
Occasions, noble Gloucester, of some poise, Wherein we must have use of your advice.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 52)
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister, Of differences, which best thought it fit To answer from our home.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 53)
The several messengers From hence attend dispatch.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 54)
Our good old friend, Lay comforts to your bosom and bestow Your needful counsel to our businesses, Which craves the instant use.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 55)
serve you, madam. Your Graces are right welcome.(King Lear, Act 0, Scene 56)
Good dawning to thee, friend. Art of this house?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 0)
Ay.  Where may we set our horses?  th' mire.  Prithee, if thou lov'st me, tell me.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 1)
love thee not.  Why then, care not for thee.  If had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, would make thee care for me.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 2)
Why dost thou use me thus? know thee not.  Fellow, know thee.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 3)
What dost thou know me for?  knave, a rascal, an eater of broken meats; a base, proud, shallow, beggarly, three-suited, hundred-pound, filthy worsted-stocking knave; a lily-livered, action-taking, whoreson, glass-gazing, superserviceable, finical rogue; one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a bawd in way of good service, and art nothing but the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pander, and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch; one whom will beat into clamorous whining if thou deny'st the least syllable of thy addition.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 4)
Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou thus to rail on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 5)
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou to deny thou knowest me!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 6)
Is it two days ago since tripped up thy heels and beat thee before the King?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 7)
Draw, you rogue, for though it be night, yet the moon shines.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 8)
I'll make a sop o' th' moonshine of you, you whoreson, cullionly barbermonger.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 9)
Draw!  Away! have nothing to do with thee.  Draw, you rascal!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 10)
You come with letters against the King and take Vanity the puppet's part against the royalty of her father.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 11)
Draw, you rogue, or I'll so carbonado your shanks!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 12)
Draw, you rascal! Come your ways.  Help, ho! Murder!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 13)
Help!  Strike, you slave! Stand, rogue! Stand, you neat slave!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 14)
Strike!  Help, ho! Murder, murder!      How now, what's the matter?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 15)
Part!  With you, goodman boy, if you please. Come, I'll flesh you.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 16)
Come on, young master.   Weapons? Arms? What's the matter here?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 17)
Keep peace, upon your lives! He dies that strikes again.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 18)
What is the matter?   The messengers from our sister and the King.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 19)
What is your difference? Speak.  am scarce in breath, my lord.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 20)
No marvel, you have so bestirred your valor. You cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee; a tailor made thee.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 21)
Thou art a strange fellow. tailor make a man?  tailor, sir.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 22)
stonecutter or a painter could not have made him so ill, though they had been but two years o' th' trade.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 23)
Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?  This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life have spared at suit of his gray beard--  Thou whoreson zed, thou unnecessary letter!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 24)
--My lord, if you will give me leave, will tread this unbolted villain into mortar and daub the wall of a jakes with him.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 25)
--Spare my gray beard, you wagtail?  Peace, sirrah!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 26)
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?   Yes, sir, but anger hath a privilege.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 27)
Why art thou angry?   That such a slave as this should wear a sword, Who wears no honesty.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 28)
Such smiling rogues as these, Like rats, oft bite the holy cords atwain Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion That in the natures of their lords rebel-- Being oil to fire, snow to the colder moods-- Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks With every gale and vary of their masters, Knowing naught, like dogs, but following.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 29)
-- plague upon your epileptic visage! Smile you my speeches, as were a fool?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 30)
Goose, if had you upon Sarum plain, I'd drive you cackling home to Camelot.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 31)
What, art thou mad, old fellow?  How fell you out?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 32)
Say that.   No contraries hold more antipathy Than and such a knave.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 33)
Why dost thou call him "knave"? What is his fault?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 34)
His countenance likes me not.   No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 35)
Sir, 'tis my occupation to be plain: have seen better faces in my time Than stands on any shoulder that see Before me at this instant.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 36)
This is some fellow Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect saucy roughness and constrains the garb Quite from his nature.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 37)
He cannot flatter, he. An honest mind and plain, he must speak truth!(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 38)
An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain. These kind of knaves know, which in this plainness Harbor more craft and more corrupter ends Than twenty silly-ducking observants That stretch their duties nicely.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 39)
Sir, in good faith, in sincere verity, Under th' allowance of your great aspect, Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire On flick'ring Phoebus' front--  What mean'st by this?(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 40)
To go out of my dialect, which you discommend so much.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 41)
know, sir, am no flatterer. He that beguiled you in a plain accent was a plain knave, which for my part will not be, though should win your displeasure to entreat me to 't.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 42)
What was th' offense you gave him?  never gave him any.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 43)
It pleased the King his master very late To strike at me, upon his misconstruction; When he, compact, and flattering his displeasure, Tripped me behind; being down, insulted, railed, And put upon him such a deal of man That worthied him, got praises of the King For him attempting who was self-subdued; And in the fleshment of this dread exploit, Drew on me here again.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 44)
None of these rogues and cowards But Ajax is their fool.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 45)
Fetch forth the stocks.-- You stubborn ancient knave, you reverent braggart, We'll teach you.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 46)
Sir, am too old to learn. Call not your stocks for me.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 47)
serve the King, On whose employment was sent to you.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 48)
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice Against the grace and person of my master, Stocking his messenger.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 49)
Fetch forth the stocks.--As have life and honor, There shall he sit till noon.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 50)
Till noon? Till night, my lord, and all night, too.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 51)
Why, madam, if were your father's dog, You should not use me so.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 52)
Sir, being his knave, will.   This is a fellow of the selfsame color Our sister speaks of.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 53)
--Come, bring away the stocks.    Let me beseech your Grace not to do so.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 54)
His fault is much, and the good king his master Will check him for 't.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 55)
Your purposed low correction Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches For pilf'rings and most common trespasses Are punished with.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 56)
The King must take it ill That he, so slightly valued in his messenger, Should have him thus restrained.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 57)
I'll answer that.   My sister may receive it much more worse To have her gentleman abused, assaulted For following her affairs.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 58)
--Put in his legs.   Come, my good lord, away.    am sorry for thee, friend.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 59)
'Tis the Duke's pleasure, Whose disposition all the world well knows Will not be rubbed nor stopped.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 60)
I'll entreat for thee.   Pray, do not, sir. have watched and traveled hard.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 61)
Some time shall sleep out; the rest I'll whistle.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 62)
good man's fortune may grow out at heels. Give you good morrow.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 63)
The Duke's to blame in this. 'Twill be ill taken.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 64)
Good king, that must approve the common saw, Thou out of heaven's benediction com'st To the warm sun.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 65)
Approach, thou beacon to this under globe, That by thy comfortable beams may Peruse this letter.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 66)
Nothing almost sees miracles But misery. know 'tis from Cordelia, Who hath most fortunately been informed Of my obscured course, and shall find time From this enormous state, seeking to give Losses their remedies.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 67)
All weary and o'erwatched, Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold This shameful lodging.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 68)
Fortune, good night. Smile once more; turn thy wheel.(King Lear, Act 1, Scene 69)
heard myself proclaimed, And by the happy hollow of a tree Escaped the hunt.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 0)
No port is free; no place That guard and most unusual vigilance Does not attend my taking.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 1)
Whiles may 'scape, will preserve myself, and am bethought To take the basest and most poorest shape That ever penury in contempt of man Brought near to beast.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 2)
My face I'll grime with filth, Blanket my loins, elf all my hairs in knots, And with presented nakedness outface The winds and persecutions of the sky.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 3)
The country gives me proof and precedent Of Bedlam beggars who with roaring voices Strike in their numbed and mortified arms Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary, And, with this horrible object, from low farms, Poor pelting villages, sheepcotes, and mills, Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers, Enforce their charity.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 4)
"Poor Turlygod! Poor Tom!" That's something yet. "Edgar" nothing am.(King Lear, Act 2, Scene 5)
'Tis strange that they should so depart from home And not send back my messenger.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 0)
As learned, The night before there was no purpose in them Of this remove.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 1)
Hail to thee, noble master.  Ha? Mak'st thou this shame thy pastime?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 2)
No, my lord.  Ha, ha, he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied by the heads, dogs and bears by th' neck, monkeys by th' loins, and men by th' legs.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 3)
When a man's overlusty at legs, then he wears wooden netherstocks.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 4)
What's he that hath so much thy place mistook To set thee here?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 5)
It is both he and she, Your son and daughter.  No.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 6)
Yes.  No, say.  say yea.  By Jupiter, swear no.  KENTBy Juno, swear ay.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 7)
They durst not do 't. They could not, would not do 't.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 8)
'Tis worse than murder To do upon respect such violent outrage.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 9)
Resolve me with all modest haste which way Thou might'st deserve or they impose this usage, Coming from us.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 10)
My lord, when at their home did commend your Highness' letters to them, Ere was risen from the place that showed My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post, Stewed in his haste, half breathless, panting forth From Goneril his mistress salutations; Delivered letters, spite of intermission, Which presently they read; on whose contents They summoned up their meiny, straight took horse, Commanded me to follow and attend The leisure of their answer, gave me cold looks; And meeting here the other messenger, Whose welcome, perceived, had poisoned mine, Being the very fellow which of late Displayed so saucily against your Highness, Having more man than wit about me, drew.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 11)
He raised the house with loud and coward cries. Your son and daughter found this trespass worth The shame which here it suffers.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 12)
Winter's not gone yet if the wild geese fly that way.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 13)
Fathers that wear rags Do make their children blind, But fathers that bear bags Shall see their children kind.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 14)
Fortune, that arrant whore, Ne'er turns the key to th' poor.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 15)
But, for all this, thou shalt have as many dolors for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 16)
how this mother swells up toward my heart! Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 17)
Thy element's below.--Where is this daughter?  With the Earl, sir, here within.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 18)
Follow me not. Stay here.   Made you no more offense but what you speak of?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 19)
None. How chance the King comes with so small a number?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 20)
An thou hadst been set i' th' stocks for that question, thou 'dst well deserved it.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 21)
Why, Fool?  We'll set thee to school to an ant to teach thee there's no laboring i' th' winter.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 22)
All that follow their noses are led by their eyes but blind men, and there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him that's stinking.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 23)
Let go thy hold when a great wheel runs down a hill lest it break thy neck with following; but the great one that goes upward, let him draw thee after.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 24)
When a wise man gives thee better counsel, give me mine again.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 25)
would have none but knaves follow it, since a Fool gives it.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 26)
That sir which serves and seeks for gain, And follows but for form, Will pack when it begins to rain And leave thee in the storm.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 27)
But will tarry; the Fool will stay, And let the wise man fly.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 28)
The knave turns fool that runs away; The Fool no knave, perdie.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 29)
Where learned you this, Fool?  Not i' th' stocks, fool.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 30)
Deny to speak with me? They are sick? They are weary?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 31)
They have traveled all the night? Mere fetches, The images of revolt and flying off.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 32)
Fetch me a better answer.  My dear lord, You know the fiery quality of the Duke, How unremovable and fixed he is In his own course.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 33)
Vengeance, plague, death, confusion! "Fiery"? What "quality"?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 34)
Why Gloucester, Gloucester, I'd speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 35)
Well, my good lord, have informed them so.   "Informed them"?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 36)
Dost thou understand me, man?  Ay, my good lord.   The King would speak with Cornwall.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 37)
The dear father Would with his daughter speak, commands, tends service.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 38)
Are they "informed" of this? My breath and blood!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 39)
"Fiery"? The "fiery" duke? Tell the hot duke that-- No, but not yet.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 40)
Maybe he is not well. Infirmity doth still neglect all office Whereto our health is bound.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 41)
We are not ourselves When nature, being oppressed, commands the mind To suffer with the body.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 42)
I'll forbear, And am fallen out with my more headier will, To take the indisposed and sickly fit For the sound man.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 43)
Death on my state! Wherefore Should he sit here?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 44)
This act persuades me That this remotion of the Duke and her Is practice only.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 45)
Give me my servant forth. Go tell the Duke and 's wife I'd speak with them.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 46)
Now, presently, bid them come forth and hear me, Or at their chamber door I'll beat the drum Till it cry sleep to death.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 47)
would have all well betwixt you.    me, my heart, my rising heart!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 48)
But down!  Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels when she put 'em i' th' paste alive.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 49)
She knapped 'em o' th' coxcombs with a stick and cried "Down, wantons, down!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 50)
" 'Twas her brother that in pure kindness to his horse buttered his hay.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 51)
Good morrow to you both.  Hail to your Grace.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 52)
am glad to see your Highness.   Regan, think you are.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 53)
know what reason have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad, would divorce me from thy mother's tomb, Sepulch'ring an adult'ress.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 54)
are you free? Some other time for that.--Beloved Regan, Thy sister's naught.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 55)
Regan, she hath tied Sharp-toothed unkindness, like a vulture, here.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 56)
can scarce speak to thee. Thou 'lt not believe With how depraved a quality--O Regan!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 57)
pray you, sir, take patience. have hope You less know how to value her desert Than she to scant her duty.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 58)
Say? How is that?   cannot think my sister in the least Would fail her obligation.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 59)
If, sir, perchance She have restrained the riots of your followers, 'Tis on such ground and to such wholesome end As clears her from all blame.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 60)
My curses on her.  sir, you are old. Nature in you stands on the very verge Of his confine.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 61)
You should be ruled and led By some discretion that discerns your state Better than you yourself.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 62)
Therefore, pray you That to our sister you do make return.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 63)
Say you have wronged her.  Ask her forgiveness? Do you but mark how this becomes the house:  "Dear daughter, confess that am old.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 64)
Age is unnecessary. On my knees beg That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 65)
"   Good sir, no more. These are unsightly tricks.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 66)
Return you to my sister.  Never, Regan. She hath abated me of half my train, Looked black upon me, struck me with her tongue Most serpentlike upon the very heart.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 67)
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall On her ingrateful top!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 68)
Strike her young bones, You taking airs, with lameness!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 69)
Fie, sir, fie!   You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames Into her scornful eyes!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 70)
Infect her beauty, You fen-sucked fogs drawn by the powerful sun To fall and blister!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 71)
the blest gods! So will you wish on me When the rash mood is on.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 72)
No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse. Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give Thee o'er to harshness.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 73)
Her eyes are fierce, but thine Do comfort and not burn.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 74)
'Tis not in thee To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train, To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes, And, in conclusion, to oppose the bolt Against my coming in.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 75)
Thou better know'st The offices of nature, bond of childhood, Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 76)
Thy half o' th' kingdom hast thou not forgot, Wherein thee endowed.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 77)
Good sir, to th' purpose.    Who put my man i' th' stocks?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 78)
What trumpet's that?   know 't--my sister's. This approves her letter, That she would soon be here.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 79)
Is your lady come?   This is a slave whose easy-borrowed pride Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 80)
-- Out, varlet, from my sight!  What means your Grace?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 81)
Who stocked my servant? Regan, have good hope Thou didst not know on 't.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 82)
Who comes here? heavens, If you do love old men, if your sweet sway Allow obedience, if you yourselves are old, Make it your cause.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 83)
Send down and take my part. Art not ashamed to look upon this beard?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 84)
Regan, will you take her by the hand?   Why not by th' hand, sir?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 85)
How have offended? All's not offense that indiscretion finds And dotage terms so.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 86)
sides, you are too tough! Will you yet hold?--How came my man i' th' stocks?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 87)
set him there, sir, but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 88)
You? Did you?   pray you, father, being weak, seem so.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 89)
If till the expiration of your month You will return and sojourn with my sister, Dismissing half your train, come then to me.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 90)
am now from home and out of that provision Which shall be needful for your entertainment.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 91)
Return to her? And fifty men dismissed? No! Rather abjure all roofs, and choose To wage against the enmity o' th' air, To be a comrade with the wolf and owl, Necessity's sharp pinch.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 92)
Return with her? Why the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took Our youngest born--I could as well be brought To knee his throne and, squire-like, pension beg To keep base life afoot.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 93)
Return with her? Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter To this detested groom.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 94)
At your choice, sir.   prithee, daughter, do not make me mad.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 95)
will not trouble thee, my child. Farewell. We'll no more meet, no more see one another.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 96)
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter, Or, rather, a disease that's in my flesh, Which must needs call mine.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 97)
Thou art a boil, plague-sore or embossed carbuncle In my corrupted blood.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 98)
But I'll not chide thee. Let shame come when it will; do not call it.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 99)
do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot, Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 100)
Mend when thou canst. Be better at thy leisure. can be patient.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 101)
can stay with Regan, and my hundred knights.  Not altogether so.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 102)
looked not for you yet, nor am provided For your fit welcome.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 103)
Give ear, sir, to my sister, For those that mingle reason with your passion Must be content to think you old, and so-- But she knows what she does.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 104)
Is this well spoken?   dare avouch it, sir. What, fifty followers?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 105)
Is it not well? What should you need of more? Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger Speak 'gainst so great a number?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 106)
How in one house Should many people under two commands Hold amity?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 107)
'Tis hard, almost impossible.   Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance From those that she calls servants, or from mine?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 108)
Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you, We could control them.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 109)
If you will come to me (For now spy a danger), entreat you To bring but five-and-twenty.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 110)
To no more Will give place or notice.  gave you all--  And in good time you gave it.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 111)
Made you my guardians, my depositaries, But kept a reservation to be followed With such a number.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 112)
What, must come to you With five-and-twenty? Regan, said you so?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 113)
And speak 't again, my lord. No more with me.   Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favored When others are more wicked.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 114)
Not being the worst Stands in some rank of praise.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 115)
I'll go with thee. Thy fifty yet doth double five-and-twenty, And thou art twice her love.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 116)
Hear me, my lord. What need you five-and-twenty, ten, or five, To follow in a house where twice so many Have a command to tend you?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 117)
What need one?   reason not the need! Our basest beggars Are in the poorest thing superfluous.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 118)
Allow not nature more than nature needs, Man's life is cheap as beast's.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 119)
Thou art a lady; If only to go warm were gorgeous, Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st, Which scarcely keeps thee warm.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 120)
But, for true need-- You heavens, give me that patience, patience need!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 121)
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man As full of grief as age, wretched in both.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 122)
If it be you that stirs these daughters' hearts Against their father, fool me not so much To bear it tamely.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 123)
Touch me with noble anger, And let not women's weapons, water drops, Stain my man's cheeks.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 124)
--No, you unnatural hags, will have such revenges on you both That all the world shall--I will do such things-- What they are yet know not, but they shall be The terrors of the Earth!(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 125)
You think I'll weep. No, I'll not weep. have full cause of weeping, but this heart  Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws Or ere I'll weep.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 126)
--O Fool, shall go mad!    Let us withdraw. 'Twill be a storm.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 127)
This house is little. The old man and 's people Cannot be well bestowed.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 128)
'Tis his own blame hath put himself from rest, And must needs taste his folly.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 129)
For his particular, I'll receive him gladly, But not one follower.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 130)
So am purposed. Where is my lord of Gloucester?(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 131)
Followed the old man forth.    He is returned.  The King is in high rage.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 132)
Whither is he going?   He calls to horse, but will know not whither.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 133)
'Tis best to give him way. He leads himself.   My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 134)
Alack, the night comes on, and the high winds Do sorely ruffle.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 135)
For many miles about There's scarce a bush.  sir, to willful men The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 136)
Shut up your doors. He is attended with a desperate train, And what they may incense him to, being apt To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 137)
Shut up your doors, my lord. 'Tis a wild night.(King Lear, Act 3, Scene 138)
How goes the night, boy?   The moon is down. have not heard the clock.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 0)
And she goes down at twelve.  take 't 'tis later, sir.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 1)
Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven; Their candles are all out.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 2)
Take thee that too. heavy summons lies like lead upon me, And yet would not sleep.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 3)
Merciful powers, Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature Gives way to in repose.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 4)
Give me my sword.--Who's there?  friend.   What, sir, not yet at rest?(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 5)
The King's abed. He hath been in unusual pleasure, and Sent forth great largess to your offices.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 6)
This diamond he greets your wife withal, By the name of most kind hostess, and shut up In measureless content.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 7)
Being unprepared, Our will became the servant to defect, Which else should free have wrought.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 8)
All's well. dreamt last night of the three Weird Sisters.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 9)
To you they have showed some truth.  think not of them.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 10)
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve, We would spend it in some words upon that business, If you would grant the time.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 11)
At your kind'st leisure.   If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis, It shall make honor for you.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 12)
So lose none In seeking to augment it, but still keep My bosom franchised and allegiance clear, shall be counseled.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 13)
Good repose the while.  Thanks, sir. The like to you.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 14)
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready, She strike upon the bell.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 15)
Get thee to bed.  Is this a dagger which see before me, The handle toward my hand?(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 16)
Come, let me clutch thee. have thee not, and yet see thee still.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 17)
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible To feeling as to sight?(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 18)
Or art thou but dagger of the mind, a false creation Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 19)
see thee yet, in form as palpable As this which now draw.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 20)
Thou marshal'st me the way that was going, And such an instrument was to use.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 21)
Mine eyes are made the fools o' th' other senses Or else worth all the rest.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 22)
see thee still, And, on thy blade and dudgeon, gouts of blood, Which was not so before.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 23)
There's no such thing. It is the bloody business which informs Thus to mine eyes.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 24)
Now o'er the one-half world Nature seems dead, and wicked dreams abuse The curtained sleep.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 25)
Witchcraft celebrates Pale Hecate's off'rings, and withered murder, Alarumed by his sentinel, the wolf, Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace, With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design Moves like a ghost.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 26)
Thou sure and firm-set earth, Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear Thy very stones prate of my whereabouts And take the present horror from the time, Which now suits with it.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 27)
Whiles threat, he lives. Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 28)
go, and it is done. The bell invites me. Hear it not, Duncan, for it is a knell That summons thee to heaven or to hell.(Macbeth, Act 0, Scene 29)
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 0)
What hath quenched them hath given me fire. Hark!(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 1)
--Peace. It was the owl that shrieked, the fatal bellman, Which gives the stern'st good-night.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 2)
He is about it. The doors are open, and the surfeited grooms Do mock their charge with snores.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 3)
have drugged their possets, That death and nature do contend about them Whether they live or die.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 4)
Who's there? what, ho!   Alack, am afraid they have awaked, And 'tis not done.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 5)
Th' attempt and not the deed Confounds us. Hark!--I laid their daggers ready; He could not miss 'em.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 6)
Had he not resembled My father as he slept, had done 't.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 7)
My husband?   have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 8)
heard the owl scream and the crickets cry. Did not you speak?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 9)
When?  Now.  As descended?  Ay.  Hark!--Who lies i' th' second chamber?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 10)
Donalbain.  This is a sorry sight.   foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 11)
There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried "Murder!(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 12)
" That they did wake each other. stood and heard them.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 13)
But they did say their prayers and addressed them Again to sleep.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 14)
There are two lodged together.   One cried "God bless us" and "Amen" the other, As they had seen me with these hangman's hands, List'ning their fear.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 15)
could not say "Amen" When they did say "God bless us.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 16)
"  Consider it not so deeply.   But wherefore could not pronounce "Amen"?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 17)
had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 18)
These deeds must not be thought After these ways; so, it will make us mad.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 19)
Methought heard a voice cry "Sleep no more! Macbeth does murder sleep"--the innocent sleep, Sleep that knits up the raveled sleave of care, The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, Chief nourisher in life's feast.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 20)
What do you mean?   Still it cried "Sleep no more!(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 21)
" to all the house. "Glamis hath murdered sleep, and therefore Cawdor Shall sleep no more.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 22)
Macbeth shall sleep no more."   Who was it that thus cried?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 23)
Why, worthy thane, You do unbend your noble strength to think So brainsickly of things.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 24)
Go get some water And wash this filthy witness from your hand.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 25)
-- Why did you bring these daggers from the place?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 26)
They must lie there. Go, carry them and smear The sleepy grooms with blood.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 27)
I'll go no more. am afraid to think what have done.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 28)
Look on 't again dare not.  Infirm of purpose! Give me the daggers.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 29)
The sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures. 'Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 30)
If he do bleed, I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal, For it must seem their guilt.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 31)
Whence is that knocking? How is 't with me when every noise appalls me?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 32)
What hands are here! Ha, they pluck out mine eyes.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 33)
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand?(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 34)
No, this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 35)
My hands are of your color, but shame To wear a heart so white.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 36)
hear a knocking At the south entry. Retire we to our chamber.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 37)
little water clears us of this deed. How easy is it, then!(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 38)
Your constancy Hath left you unattended. Hark, more knocking.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 39)
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us And show us to be watchers.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 40)
Be not lost So poorly in your thoughts.   To know my deed 'twere best not know myself.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 41)
Wake Duncan with thy knocking. would thou couldst.(Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 42)
Here's a knocking indeed! If a man were porter of hell gate, he should have old turning the key.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 0)
Knock, knock, knock! Who's there, i' th' name of Beelzebub?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 1)
Here's a farmer that hanged himself on th' expectation of plenty.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 2)
Come in time! Have napkins enough about you; here you'll sweat for 't.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 3)
Knock, knock! Who's there, in th' other devil's name?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 4)
Faith, here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales against either scale, who committed treason enough for God's sake yet could not equivocate to heaven.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 5)
come in, equivocator.  Knock, knock, knock! Who's there?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 6)
Faith, here's an English tailor come hither for stealing out of a French hose.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 7)
Come in, tailor. Here you may roast your goose.  Knock, knock!(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 8)
Never at quiet.--What are you?--But this place is too cold for hell.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 9)
I'll devil-porter it no further. had thought to have let in some of all professions that go the primrose way to th' everlasting bonfire.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 10)
Anon, anon!    pray you, remember the porter.   Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed That you do lie so late?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 11)
Faith, sir, we were carousing till the second cock, and drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 12)
What three things does drink especially provoke?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 13)
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes and unprovokes.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 14)
It provokes the desire, but it takes away the performance.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 15)
Therefore much drink may be said to be an equivocator with lechery.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 16)
It makes him, and it mars him; it sets him on, and it takes him off; it persuades him and disheartens him; makes him stand to and not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him in a sleep and, giving him the lie, leaves him.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 17)
believe drink gave thee the lie last night.  That it did, sir, i' th' very throat on me; but requited him for his lie, and, think, being too strong for him, though he took up my legs sometime, yet made a shift to cast him.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 18)
Is thy master stirring?    Our knocking has awaked him.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 19)
Here he comes.    Good morrow, noble sir.  Good morrow, both.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 20)
Is the King stirring, worthy thane?  Not yet.   He did command me to call timely on him.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 21)
have almost slipped the hour.  I'll bring you to him.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 22)
know this is a joyful trouble to you, But yet 'tis one.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 23)
The labor we delight in physics pain. This is the door.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 24)
I'll make so bold to call, For 'tis my limited service.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 25)
Goes the King hence today?  He does. He did appoint so.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 26)
The night has been unruly. Where we lay, Our chimneys were blown down and, as they say, Lamentings heard i' th' air, strange screams of death, And prophesying, with accents terrible, Of dire combustion and confused events New hatched to th' woeful time.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 27)
The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Some say the Earth Was feverous and did shake.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 28)
'Twas a rough night.   My young remembrance cannot parallel fellow to it.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 29)
horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart cannot conceive nor name thee!(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 30)
What's the matter?   Confusion now hath made his masterpiece.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 31)
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope The Lord's anointed temple and stole thence The life o' th' building.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 32)
What is 't you say? The life?  Mean you his Majesty?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 33)
Approach the chamber and destroy your sight With a new Gorgon.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 34)
Do not bid me speak. See and then speak yourselves.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 35)
Awake, awake! Ring the alarum bell.--Murder and treason!(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 36)
Banquo and Donalbain, Malcolm, awake! Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit, And look on death itself.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 37)
Up, up, and see The great doom's image. Malcolm, Banquo, As from your graves rise up and walk like sprites To countenance this horror.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 38)
--Ring the bell.      What's the business, That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley The sleepers of the house?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 39)
Speak, speak!  gentle lady, 'Tis not for you to hear what can speak.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 40)
The repetition in a woman's ear Would murder as it fell.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 41)
Banquo, Banquo, Our royal master's murdered.  Woe, alas!(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 42)
What, in our house?  Too cruel anywhere.-- Dear Duff, prithee, contradict thyself And say it is not so.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 43)
Had but died an hour before this chance, had lived a blessed time; for from this instant There's nothing serious in mortality.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 44)
All is but toys. Renown and grace is dead. The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 45)
What is amiss?  You are, and do not know 't. The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood Is stopped; the very source of it is stopped.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 46)
Your royal father's murdered.  by whom?   Those of his chamber, as it seemed, had done 't.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 47)
Their hands and faces were all badged with blood.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 48)
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found Upon their pillows.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 49)
They stared and were distracted. No man's life was to be trusted with them.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 50)
yet do repent me of my fury, That did kill them.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 51)
Wherefore did you so?   Who can be wise, amazed, temp'rate, and furious, Loyal, and neutral, in a moment?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 52)
No man. Th' expedition of my violent love Outrun the pauser, reason.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 53)
Here lay Duncan, His silver skin laced with his golden blood, And his gashed stabs looked like a breach in nature For ruin's wasteful entrance; there the murderers, Steeped in the colors of their trade, their daggers Unmannerly breeched with gore.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 54)
Who could refrain That had a heart to love, and in that heart Courage to make 's love known?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 55)
Help me hence, ho!   Look to the lady.  Why do we hold our tongues, That most may claim this argument for ours?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 56)
What should be spoken here, where our fate, Hid in an auger hole, may rush and seize us?(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 57)
Let's away. Our tears are not yet brewed.   Nor our strong sorrow upon the foot of motion.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 58)
Look to the lady.  And when we have our naked frailties hid, That suffer in exposure, let us meet And question this most bloody piece of work To know it further.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 59)
Fears and scruples shake us. In the great hand of God stand, and thence Against the undivulged pretense fight Of treasonous malice.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 60)
And so do  So all.   Let's briefly put on manly readiness And meet i' th' hall together.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 61)
Well contented.    What will you do? Let's not consort with them.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 62)
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office Which the false man does easy.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 63)
I'll to England.   To Ireland Our separated fortune Shall keep us both the safer.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 64)
Where we are, There's daggers in men's smiles. The near in blood, The nearer bloody.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 65)
This murderous shaft that's shot Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way Is to avoid the aim.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 66)
Therefore to horse, And let us not be dainty of leave-taking But shift away.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 67)
There's warrant in that theft Which steals itself when there's no mercy left.(Macbeth, Act 2, Scene 68)
Threescore and ten can remember well, Within the volume of which time have seen Hours dreadful and things strange, but this sore night Hath trifled former knowings.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 0)
Ha, good father, Thou seest the heavens, as troubled with man's act, Threatens his bloody stage.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 1)
By th' clock 'tis day, And yet dark night strangles the traveling lamp.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 2)
Is 't night's predominance or the day's shame That darkness does the face of earth entomb When living light should kiss it?(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 3)
'Tis unnatural, Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last falcon, tow'ring in her pride of place, Was by a mousing owl hawked at and killed.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 4)
And Duncan's horses (a thing most strange and certain), Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race, Turned wild in nature, broke their stalls, flung out, Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would Make war with mankind.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 5)
'Tis said they eat each other.   They did so, to th' amazement of mine eyes That looked upon 't.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 6)
Here comes the good Macduff.-- How goes the world, sir, now?(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 7)
Why, see you not?   Is 't known who did this more than bloody deed?(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 8)
Those that Macbeth hath slain.  Alas the day, What good could they pretend?(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 9)
They were suborned. Malcolm and Donalbain, the King's two sons, Are stol'n away and fled, which puts upon them Suspicion of the deed.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 10)
'Gainst nature still! Thriftless ambition, that will ravin up Thine own lives' means.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 11)
Then 'tis most like The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 12)
He is already named and gone to Scone To be invested.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 13)
Where is Duncan's body?  Carried to Colmekill, The sacred storehouse of his predecessors And guardian of their bones.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 14)
Will you to Scone?   No, cousin, I'll to Fife.  Well, will thither.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 15)
Well, may you see things well done there. Adieu, Lest our old robes sit easier than our new.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 16)
Farewell, father.   God's benison go with you and with those That would make good of bad and friends of foes.(Macbeth, Act 3, Scene 17)
We must not make a scarecrow of the law, Setting it up to fear the birds of prey, And let it keep one shape till custom make it Their perch and not their terror.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 0)
Ay, but yet Let us be keen and rather cut a little Than fall and bruise to death.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 1)
Alas, this gentleman Whom would save had a most noble father.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 2)
Let but your Honor know, Whom believe to be most strait in virtue, That, in the working of your own affections, Had time cohered with place, or place with wishing, Or that the resolute acting of your blood Could have attained th' effect of your own purpose, Whether you had not sometime in your life Erred in this point which now you censure him, And pulled the law upon you.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 3)
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus, Another thing to fall.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 4)
not deny The jury passing on the prisoner's life May in the sworn twelve have a thief or two Guiltier than him they try.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 5)
What's open made to justice, That justice seizes.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 6)
What knows the laws That thieves do pass on thieves?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 7)
'Tis very pregnant, The jewel that we find, we stoop and take 't Because we see it; but what we do not see, We tread upon and never think of it.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 8)
You may not so extenuate his offense For have had such faults; but rather tell me, When that censure him do so offend, Let mine own judgment pattern out my death, And nothing come in partial.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 9)
Sir, he must die.      Be it as your wisdom will.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 10)
Where is the Provost?   Here, if it like your Honor.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 11)
See that Claudio Be executed by nine tomorrow morning.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 12)
Bring him his confessor, let him be prepared, For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 13)
Well, heaven forgive him and forgive us all. Some rise by sin and some by virtue fall.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 14)
Some run from brakes of ice and answer none, And some condemned for a fault alone.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 15)
Come, bring them away. If these be good people in a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in common houses, know no law.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 16)
Bring them away.  How now, sir, what's your name?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 17)
And what's the matter?  If it please your Honor, am the poor duke's constable, and my name is Elbow.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 18)
do lean upon justice, sir, and do bring in here before your good Honor two notorious benefactors.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 19)
Benefactors? Well, what benefactors are they? Are they not malefactors?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 20)
If it please your Honor, know not well what they are, but precise villains they are, that am sure of, and void of all profanation in the world that good Christians ought to have.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 21)
This comes off well. Here's a wise officer.  Go to.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 22)
What quality are they of? Elbow is your name? Why dost thou not speak, Elbow?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 23)
He cannot, sir. He's out at elbow.  What are you, sir?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 24)
He, sir? tapster, sir, parcel bawd; one that serves a bad woman, whose house, sir, was, as they say, plucked down in the suburbs, and now she professes a hothouse, which think is a very ill house too.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 25)
How know you that?  My wife, sir, whom detest before heaven and your Honor--  How?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 26)
Thy wife?  Ay, sir, whom thank heaven is an honest woman--  Dost thou detest her therefore?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 27)
say, sir, will detest myself also, as well as she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house, it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 28)
How dost thou know that, constable?  Marry, sir, by my wife, who, if she had been a woman cardinally given, might have been accused in fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 29)
By the woman's means?  Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means; but as she spit in his face, so she defied him.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 30)
Sir, if it please your Honor, this is not so.  Prove it before these varlets here, thou honorable man, prove it.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 31)
Do you hear how he misplaces?  Sir, she came in great with child, and longing, saving your Honor's reverence, for stewed prunes.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 32)
Sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit dish, a dish of some threepence; your Honors have seen such dishes; they are not china dishes, but very good dishes--  Go to, go to.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 33)
No matter for the dish, sir.  No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in the right.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 34)
But to the point: as say, this Mistress Elbow, being, as say, with child, and being great-bellied, and longing, as said, for prunes; and having but two in the dish, as said, Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the rest, as said, and, as say, paying for them very honestly--for, as you know, Master Froth, could not give you threepence again--  No, indeed.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 35)
Very well. You being then, if you be remembered, cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes--  Ay, so did indeed.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 36)
Why, very well. telling you then, if you be remembered, that such a one and such a one were past cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very good diet, as told you--  All this is true.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 37)
Why, very well then--  Come, you are a tedious fool.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 38)
To the purpose: what was done to Elbow's wife that he hath cause to complain of?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 39)
Come me to what was done to her.  Sir, your Honor cannot come to that yet.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 40)
No, sir, nor mean it not.  Sir, but you shall come to it, by your Honor's leave.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 41)
And beseech you, look into Master Froth here, sir, a man of fourscore pound a year, whose father died at Hallowmas--was 't not at Hallowmas, Master Froth?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 42)
All-hallond Eve.  Why, very well. hope here be truths.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 43)
--He, sir, sitting, as say, in a lower chair, sir-- 'Twas in the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delight to sit, have you not?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 44)
have so, because it is an open room, and good for winter.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 45)
Why, very well then. hope here be truths.   This will last out a night in Russia When nights are longest there.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 46)
I'll take my leave, And leave you to the hearing of the cause, Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 47)
think no less. Good morrow to your Lordship  Now, sir, come on.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 48)
What was done to Elbow's wife, once more?  Once, sir?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 49)
There was nothing done to her once.  beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 50)
beseech your Honor, ask me.  Well, sir, what did this gentleman to her?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 51)
beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 52)
--Good Master Froth, look upon his Honor. 'Tis for a good purpose.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 53)
--Doth your Honor mark his face?  Ay, sir, very well.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 54)
Nay, beseech you, mark it well.  Well, do so.  Doth your Honor see any harm in his face?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 55)
Why, no.  I'll be supposed upon a book, his face is the worst thing about him.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 56)
Good, then, if his face be the worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the Constable's wife any harm?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 57)
would know that of your Honor.  He's in the right, constable.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 58)
What say you to it?  First, an it like you, the house is a respected house; next, this is a respected fellow, and his mistress is a respected woman.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 59)
By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected person than any of us all.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 60)
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! The time is yet to come that she was ever respected with man, woman, or child.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 61)
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 62)
Which is the wiser here, Justice or Iniquity? Is this true?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 63)
thou caitiff! thou varlet! thou wicked Hannibal!(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 64)
respected with her before was married to her?--If ever was respected with her, or she with me, let not your Worship think me the poor duke's officer.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 65)
--Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or I'll have mine action of batt'ry on thee.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 66)
If he took you a box o' th' ear, you might have your action of slander too.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 67)
Marry, thank your good Worship for it. What is 't your Worship's pleasure shall do with this wicked caitiff?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 68)
Truly, officer, because he hath some offenses in him that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his courses till thou know'st what they are.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 69)
Marry, thank your Worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 70)
Thou art to continue now, thou varlet, thou art to continue.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 71)
Where were you born, friend?  Here in Vienna, sir.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 72)
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?  Yes, an 't please you, sir.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 73)
So.  What trade are you of, sir?  tapster, a poor widow's tapster.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 74)
Your mistress' name?  Mistress Overdone.  Hath she had any more than one husband?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 75)
Nine, sir. Overdone by the last.  Nine?--Come hither to me, Master Froth.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 76)
Master Froth, would not have you acquainted with tapsters; they will draw you, Master Froth, and you will hang them.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 77)
Get you gone, and let me hear no more of you.  thank your Worship.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 78)
For mine own part, never come into any room in a taphouse but am drawn in.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 79)
Well, no more of it, Master Froth. Farewell.  Come you hither to me, Master Tapster.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 80)
What's your name, Master Tapster?  Pompey.  What else?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 81)
Bum, sir.  Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you, so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the Great.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 82)
Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey, howsoever you color it in being a tapster, are you not?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 83)
Come, tell me true. It shall be the better for you.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 84)
Truly, sir, am a poor fellow that would live.  How would you live, Pompey?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 85)
By being a bawd? What do you think of the trade, Pompey?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 86)
Is it a lawful trade?  If the law would allow it, sir.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 87)
But the law will not allow it, Pompey, nor it shall not be allowed in Vienna.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 88)
Does your Worship mean to geld and splay all the youth of the city?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 89)
No, Pompey.  Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to 't then.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 90)
If your Worship will take order for the drabs and the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 91)
There is pretty orders beginning, can tell you. It is but heading and hanging.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 92)
If you head and hang all that offend that way but for ten year together, you'll be glad to give out a commission for more heads.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 93)
If this law hold in Vienna ten year, I'll rent the fairest house in it after threepence a bay.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 94)
If you live to see this come to pass, say Pompey told you so.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 95)
Thank you, good Pompey. And in requital of your prophecy, hark you: advise you let me not find you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever; no, not for dwelling where you do.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 96)
If do, Pompey, shall beat you to your tent and prove a shrewd Caesar to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 97)
In plain dealing, Pompey, shall have you whipped.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 98)
So, for this time, Pompey, fare you well.  thank your Worship for your good counsel.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 99)
But shall follow it as the flesh and fortune shall better determine.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 100)
Whip me? No, no, let carman whip his jade. The valiant heart's not whipped out of his trade.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 101)
Come hither to me, Master Elbow. Come hither, Master Constable.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 102)
How long have you been in this place of constable?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 103)
Seven year and a half, sir.  thought, by the readiness in the office, you had continued in it some time.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 104)
You say seven years together?  And a half, sir.  Alas, it hath been great pains to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 105)
They do you wrong to put you so oft upon 't. Are there not men in your ward sufficient to serve it?(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 106)
Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters. As they are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 107)
do it for some piece of money and go through with all.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 108)
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven, the most sufficient of your parish.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 109)
To your Worship's house, sir?  To my house. Fare you well.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 110)
What's o'clock, think you?  Eleven, sir.  pray you home to dinner with me.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 111)
humbly thank you.   It grieves me for the death of Claudio, But there's no remedy.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 112)
Lord Angelo is severe.  It is but needful. Mercy is not itself that oft looks so.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 113)
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe. But yet, poor Claudio.(Measure for Measure, Act 0, Scene 114)
He's hearing of a cause. He will come straight.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 0)
I'll tell him of you.  Pray you do.  I'll know His pleasure.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 1)
Maybe he will relent. Alas, He hath but as offended in a dream.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 2)
All sects, all ages smack of this vice, and he To die for 't?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 3)
Now, what's the matter, provost?   Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 4)
Did not tell thee yea? Hadst thou not order? Why dost thou ask again?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 5)
Lest might be too rash. Under your good correction, have seen When, after execution, judgment hath Repented o'er his doom.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 6)
Go to. Let that be mine. Do you your office, or give up your place And you shall well be spared.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 7)
crave your Honor's pardon. What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 8)
She's very near her hour.  Dispose of her To some more fitter place, and that with speed.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 9)
Here is the sister of the man condemned Desires access to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 10)
Hath he a sister?   Ay, my good lord, a very virtuous maid, And to be shortly of a sisterhood, If not already.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 11)
Well, let her be admitted.  See you the fornicatress be removed.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 12)
Let her have needful but not lavish means. There shall be order for 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 13)
Save your Honor.   Stay a little while.  You're welcome.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 14)
What's your will?   am a woeful suitor to your Honor, Please but your Honor hear me.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 15)
Well, what's your suit?   There is a vice that most do abhor, And most desire should meet the blow of justice, For which would not plead, but that must; For which must not plead, but that am At war 'twixt will and will not.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 16)
Well, the matter?   have a brother is condemned to die.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 17)
do beseech you let it be his fault And not my brother.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 18)
Heaven give thee moving graces.   Condemn the fault, and not the actor of it?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 19)
Why, every fault's condemned ere it be done. Mine were the very cipher of a function To fine the faults whose fine stands in record And let go by the actor.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 20)
just but severe law! had a brother, then. Heaven keep your Honor.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 21)
Give 't not o'er so. To him again, entreat him, Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 22)
You are too cold. If you should need a pin, You could not with more tame a tongue desire it.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 23)
To him, say.   Must he needs die?  Maiden, no remedy.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 24)
Yes, do think that you might pardon him, And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 25)
will not do 't.  But can you if you would?   Look what will not, that cannot do.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 26)
But might you do 't and do the world no wrong If so your heart were touched with that remorse As mine is to him?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 27)
He's sentenced. 'Tis too late.  You are too cold.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 28)
Too late? Why, no. that do speak a word May call it back again.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 29)
Well believe this: No ceremony that to great ones longs, Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword, The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe Become them with one half so good a grace As mercy does.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 30)
If he had been as you, and you as he, You would have slipped like him, but he like you Would not have been so stern.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 31)
Pray you begone.   would to heaven had your potency, And you were Isabel.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 32)
Should it then be thus? No. would tell what 'twere to be a judge And what a prisoner.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 33)
Ay, touch him; there's the vein.   Your brother is a forfeit of the law, And you but waste your words.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 34)
Alas, alas! Why all the souls that were were forfeit once, And He that might the vantage best have took Found out the remedy.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 35)
How would you be If He which is the top of judgment should But judge you as you are?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 36)
think on that, And mercy then will breathe within your lips Like man new-made.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 37)
Be you content, fair maid. It is the law, not condemn your brother.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 38)
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son, It should be thus with him.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 39)
He must die tomorrow.   Tomorrow? that's sudden! Spare him, spare him.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 40)
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens We kill the fowl of season.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 41)
Shall we serve heaven With less respect than we do minister To our gross selves?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 42)
Good, good my lord, bethink you. Who is it that hath died for this offense?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 43)
There's many have committed it.  Ay, well said.   The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 44)
Those many had not dared to do that evil If the first that did th' edict infringe Had answered for his deed.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 45)
Now 'tis awake, Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet, Looks in a glass that shows what future evils-- Either now, or by remissness new-conceived, And so in progress to be hatched and born-- Are now to have no successive degrees But, ere they live, to end.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 46)
Yet show some pity.   show it most of all when show justice, For then pity those do not know, Which a dismissed offense would after gall, And do him right that, answering one foul wrong, Lives not to act another.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 47)
Be satisfied; Your brother dies tomorrow; be content.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 48)
So you must be the first that gives this sentence, And he that suffers.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 49)
it is excellent To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous To use it like a giant.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 50)
That's well said.  Could great men thunder As Jove himself does, Jove would never be quiet, For every pelting, petty officer Would use his heaven for thunder, Nothing but thunder.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 51)
Merciful heaven, Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt Splits the unwedgeable and gnarled oak, Than the soft myrtle.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 52)
But man, proud man, Dressed in a little brief authority, Most ignorant of what he's most assured, His glassy essence, like an angry ape Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven As makes the angels weep, who with our spleens Would all themselves laugh mortal.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 53)
to him, to him, wench. He will relent. He's coming.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 54)
perceive 't.  Pray heaven she win him.   We cannot weigh our brother with ourself.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 55)
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them, But in the less, foul profanation.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 56)
Thou 'rt i' th' right, girl. More o' that.   That in the captain's but a choleric word Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 57)
Art avised o' that? More on 't.   Why do you put these sayings upon me?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 58)
Because authority, though it err like others, Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself That skins the vice o' th' top.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 59)
Go to your bosom, Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know That's like my brother's fault.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 60)
If it confess natural guiltiness such as is his, Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue Against my brother's life.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 61)
She speaks, and 'tis such sense That my sense breeds with it.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 62)
Fare you well.  Gentle my lord, turn back.   will bethink me.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 63)
Come again tomorrow.   Hark how I'll bribe you. Good my lord, turn back.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 64)
How? Bribe me?   Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 65)
You had marred all else.   Not with fond sicles of the tested gold, Or stones whose rate are either rich or poor As fancy values them, but with true prayers That shall be up at heaven and enter there Ere sunrise, prayers from preserved souls, From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate To nothing temporal.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 66)
Well, come to me tomorrow.  Go to, 'tis well; away.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 67)
Heaven keep your Honor safe.  Amen. For am that way going to temptation Where prayers cross.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 68)
At what hour tomorrow Shall attend your Lordship?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 69)
At any time 'fore noon.  Save your Honor.   From thee, even from thy virtue.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 70)
What's this? What's this? Is this her fault or mine?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 71)
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most, ha? Not she, nor doth she tempt; but it is That, lying by the violet in the sun, Do as the carrion does, not as the flower, Corrupt with virtuous season.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 72)
Can it be That modesty may more betray our sense Than woman's lightness?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 73)
Having waste ground enough, Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary And pitch our evils there?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 74)
fie, fie, fie! What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 75)
Dost thou desire her foully for those things That make her good?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 76)
let her brother live. Thieves for their robbery have authority When judges steal themselves.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 77)
What, do love her That desire to hear her speak again And feast upon her eyes?(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 78)
What is 't dream on? cunning enemy that, to catch a saint, With saints dost bait thy hook.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 79)
Most dangerous Is that temptation that doth goad us on To sin in loving virtue.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 80)
Never could the strumpet With all her double vigor, art and nature, Once stir my temper, but this virtuous maid Subdues me quite.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 81)
Ever till now When men were fond, smiled and wondered how.(Measure for Measure, Act 1, Scene 82)
Hail to you, provost, so think you are.   am the Provost.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 0)
What's your will, good friar?   Bound by my charity and my blest order, come to visit the afflicted spirits Here in the prison.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 1)
Do me the common right To let me see them, and to make me know The nature of their crimes, that may minister To them accordingly.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 2)
would do more than that if more were needful.    Look, here comes one, a gentlewoman of mine, Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth, Hath blistered her report.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 3)
She is with child, And he that got it, sentenced--a young man, More fit to do another such offense Than die for this.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 4)
When must he die?  As do think, tomorrow. have provided for you.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 5)
Stay awhile And you shall be conducted.   Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 6)
do; and bear the shame most patiently.   I'll teach you how you shall arraign your conscience, And try your penitence, if it be sound Or hollowly put on.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 7)
I'll gladly learn.  Love you the man that wronged you?(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 8)
Yes, as love the woman that wronged him.   So then it seems your most offenseful act Was mutually committed?(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 9)
Mutually.   Then was your sin of heavier kind than his.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 10)
do confess it and repent it, father.   'Tis meet so, daughter; but lest you do repent As that the sin hath brought you to this shame, Which sorrow is always toward ourselves, not heaven, Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it, But as we stand in fear--   do repent me as it is an evil, And take the shame with joy.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 11)
There rest. Your partner, as hear, must die tomorrow, And am going with instruction to him.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 12)
Grace go with you. Benedicite.   Must die tomorrow?(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 13)
injurious love That respites me a life, whose very comfort Is still a dying horror.(Measure for Measure, Act 2, Scene 14)
2        When would pray and think, think and pray To several subjects.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 0)
Heaven hath my empty words, Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue, Anchors on Isabel.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 1)
God in my mouth, As if did but only chew His name, And in my heart the strong and swelling evil Of my conception.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 2)
The state whereon studied Is, like a good thing being often read, Grown sere and tedious.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 3)
Yea, my gravity, Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride, Could with boot change for an idle plume Which the air beats for vain.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 4)
place, form, How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit, Wrench awe from fools, and tie the wiser souls To thy false seeming!(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 5)
Blood, thou art blood. Let's write "good angel" on the devil's horn.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 6)
'Tis not the devil's crest.  How now, who's there?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 7)
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 8)
Teach her the way.  heavens, Why does my blood thus muster to my heart, Making both it unable for itself And dispossessing all my other parts Of necessary fitness?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 9)
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons, Come all to help him, and so stop the air By which he should revive.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 10)
And even so The general subject to a well-wished king Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love Must needs appear offense.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 11)
How now, fair maid?  am come to know your pleasure.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 12)
That you might know it would much better please me Than to demand what 'tis.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 13)
Your brother cannot live.  Even so. Heaven keep your Honor.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 14)
Yet may he live a while. And it may be As long as you or Yet he must die.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 15)
Under your sentence?  Yea.   When, beseech you? That in his reprieve, Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted That his soul sicken not.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 16)
Ha! Fie, these filthy vices! It were as good To pardon him that hath from nature stolen man already made, as to remit Their saucy sweetness that do coin God's image In stamps that are forbid.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 17)
'Tis all as easy Falsely to take away a life true made As to put metal in restrained means To make a false one.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 18)
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in Earth.   Say you so?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 19)
Then shall pose you quickly: Which had you rather, that the most just law Now took your brother's life, or, to redeem him, Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness As she that he hath stained?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 20)
Sir, believe this: had rather give my body than my soul.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 21)
talk not of your soul. Our compelled sins Stand more for number than for accompt.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 22)
How say you?   Nay, I'll not warrant that, for can speak Against the thing say.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 23)
Answer to this: now the voice of the recorded law, Pronounce a sentence on your brother's life.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 24)
Might there not be a charity in sin To save this brother's life?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 25)
Please you to do 't, I'll take it as a peril to my soul, It is no sin at all, but charity.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 26)
Pleased you to do 't, at peril of your soul, Were equal poise of sin and charity.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 27)
That do beg his life, if it be sin Heaven let me bear it.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 28)
You granting of my suit, If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer To have it added to the faults of mine And nothing of your answer.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 29)
Nay, but hear me. Your sense pursues not mine. Either you are ignorant, Or seem so, crafty, and that's not good.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 30)
Let me be ignorant and in nothing good, But graciously to know am no better.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 31)
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright When it doth tax itself, as these black masks Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder Than beauty could, displayed.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 32)
But mark me. To be received plain, I'll speak more gross: Your brother is to die.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 33)
So.   And his offense is so, as it appears, Accountant to the law upon that pain.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 34)
True.   Admit no other way to save his life-- As subscribe not that, nor any other-- But, in the loss of question, that you, his sister, Finding yourself desired of such a person Whose credit with the judge, or own great place, Could fetch your brother from the manacles Of the all-binding law, and that there were No earthly mean to save him but that either You must lay down the treasures of your body To this supposed, or else to let him suffer, What would you do?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 35)
As much for my poor brother as myself. That is, were under the terms of death, Th' impression of keen whips I'd wear as rubies And strip myself to death as to a bed That longing have been sick for, ere I'd yield My body up to shame.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 36)
Then must your brother die.  And 'twere the cheaper way.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 37)
Better it were a brother died at once Than that a sister, by redeeming him, Should die forever.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 38)
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence That you have slandered so?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 39)
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon Are of two houses.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 40)
Lawful mercy Is nothing kin to foul redemption.   You seemed of late to make the law a tyrant, And rather proved the sliding of your brother merriment than a vice.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 41)
pardon me, my lord. It oft falls out, To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 42)
something do excuse the thing hate For his advantage that dearly love.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 43)
We are all frail.  Else let my brother die, If not a fedary but only he Owe and succeed thy weakness.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 44)
Nay, women are frail too.   Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves, Which are as easy broke as they make forms.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 45)
Women--help, heaven--men their creation mar In profiting by them.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 46)
Nay, call us ten times frail, For we are soft as our complexions are, And credulous to false prints.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 47)
think it well. And from this testimony of your own sex, Since suppose we are made to be no stronger Than faults may shake our frames, let me be bold.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 48)
do arrest your words. Be that you are-- That is, a woman.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 49)
If you be more, you're none. If you be one, as you are well expressed By all external warrants, show it now By putting on the destined livery.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 50)
have no tongue but one. Gentle my lord, Let me entreat you speak the former language.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 51)
Plainly conceive love you.  My brother did love Juliet, And you tell me that he shall die for 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 52)
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.   know your virtue hath a license in 't Which seems a little fouler than it is To pluck on others.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 53)
Believe me, on mine honor, My words express my purpose.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 54)
Ha! Little honor to be much believed, And most pernicious purpose.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 55)
Seeming, seeming! will proclaim thee, Angelo, look for 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 56)
Sign me a present pardon for my brother Or with an outstretched throat I'll tell the world aloud What man thou art.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 57)
Who will believe thee, Isabel? My unsoiled name, th' austereness of my life, My vouch against you, and my place i' th' state Will so your accusation overweigh That you shall stifle in your own report And smell of calumny.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 58)
have begun, And now give my sensual race the rein.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 59)
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite; Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes That banish what they sue for.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 60)
Redeem thy brother By yielding up thy body to my will, Or else he must not only die the death, But thy unkindness shall his death draw out To ling'ring sufferance.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 61)
Answer me tomorrow, Or by the affection that now guides me most, I'll prove a tyrant to him.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 62)
As for you, Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 63)
To whom should complain? Did tell this, Who would believe me?(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 64)
perilous mouths, That bear in them one and the selfsame tongue, Either of condemnation or approof, Bidding the law make curtsy to their will, Hooking both right and wrong to th' appetite, To follow as it draws.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 65)
I'll to my brother. Though he hath fall'n by prompture of the blood, Yet hath he in him such a mind of honor That, had he twenty heads to tender down On twenty bloody blocks, he'd yield them up Before his sister should her body stoop To such abhorred pollution.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 66)
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die. More than our brother is our chastity.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 67)
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request, And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.(Measure for Measure, Act 3, Scene 68)
So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?   The miserable have no other medicine But only hope.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 0)
have hope to live and am prepared to die.   Be absolute for death.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 1)
Either death or life Shall thereby be the sweeter.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 2)
Reason thus with life: If do lose thee, do lose a thing That none but fools would keep.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 3)
breath thou art, Servile to all the skyey influences That doth this habitation where thou keep'st Hourly afflict.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 4)
Merely, thou art death's fool, For him thou labor'st by thy flight to shun, And yet runn'st toward him still.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 5)
Thou art not noble, For all th' accommodations that thou bear'st Are nursed by baseness.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 6)
Thou 'rt by no means valiant, For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork Of a poor worm.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 7)
Thy best of rest is sleep, And that thou oft provok'st, yet grossly fear'st Thy death, which is no more.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 8)
Thou art not thyself, For thou exists on many a thousand grains That issue out of dust.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 9)
Happy thou art not, For what thou hast not, still thou striv'st to get, And what thou hast, forget'st.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 10)
Thou art not certain, For thy complexion shifts to strange effects After the moon.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 11)
If thou art rich, thou 'rt poor, For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows, Thou bear'st thy heavy riches but a journey, And death unloads thee.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 12)
Friend hast thou none, For thine own bowels which do call thee sire, The mere effusion of thy proper loins, Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum For ending thee no sooner.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 13)
Thou hast nor youth nor age, But as it were an after-dinner's sleep Dreaming on both, for all thy blessed youth Becomes as aged and doth beg the alms Of palsied eld; and when thou art old and rich, Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty To make thy riches pleasant.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 14)
What's yet in this That bears the name of life? Yet in this life Lie hid more thousand deaths; yet death we fear, That makes these odds all even.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 15)
humbly thank you. To sue to live, find seek to die, And seeking death, find life.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 16)
Let it come on.   What ho! Peace here, grace, and good company.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 17)
Who's there? Come in. The wish deserves a welcome.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 18)
Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.  Most holy sir, thank you.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 19)
My business is a word or two with Claudio.   And very welcome.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 20)
--Look, signior, here's your sister.  Provost, a word with you.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 21)
As many as you please.   Bring me to hear them speak, where may be concealed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 22)
Now, sister, what's the comfort?  Why, As all comforts are, most good, most good indeed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 23)
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven, Intends you for his swift ambassador, Where you shall be an everlasting leiger; Therefore your best appointment make with speed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 24)
Tomorrow you set on.  Is there no remedy?   None but such remedy as, to save a head, To cleave a heart in twain.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 25)
But is there any?  Yes, brother, you may live. There is a devilish mercy in the judge, If you'll implore it, that will free your life But fetter you till death.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 26)
Perpetual durance?   Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint, Though all the world's vastidity you had, To a determined scope.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 27)
But in what nature?   In such a one as, you consenting to 't, Would bark your honor from that trunk you bear And leave you naked.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 28)
Let me know the point.   do fear thee, Claudio, and quake Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain, And six or seven winters more respect Than a perpetual honor.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 29)
Dar'st thou die? The sense of death is most in apprehension, And the poor beetle that we tread upon In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great As when a giant dies.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 30)
Why give you me this shame? Think you can a resolution fetch From flowery tenderness?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 31)
If must die, will encounter darkness as a bride, And hug it in mine arms.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 32)
There spake my brother! There my father's grave Did utter forth a voice.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 33)
Yes, thou must die. Thou art too noble to conserve a life In base appliances.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 34)
This outward-sainted deputy-- Whose settled visage and deliberate word Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth enew As falcon doth the fowl--is yet a devil.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 35)
His filth within being cast, he would appear pond as deep as hell.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 36)
The prenzie Angelo?   'tis the cunning livery of hell The damned'st body to invest and cover In prenzie guards.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 37)
Dost thou think, Claudio, If would yield him my virginity Thou mightst be freed?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 38)
heavens, it cannot be!   Yes, he would give 't thee; from this rank offense, So to offend him still.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 39)
This night's the time That should do what abhor to name, Or else thou diest tomorrow.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 40)
Thou shalt not do 't.  were it but my life, I'd throw it down for your deliverance As frankly as a pin.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 41)
Thanks, dear Isabel.   Be ready, Claudio, for your death tomorrow.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 42)
Yes. Has he affections in him That thus can make him bite the law by th' nose, When he would force it?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 43)
Sure it is no sin, Or of the deadly seven it is the least.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 44)
Which is the least?   If it were damnable, he being so wise, Why would he for the momentary trick Be perdurably fined?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 45)
Isabel--   What says my brother?  Death is a fearful thing.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 46)
And shamed life a hateful.   Ay, but to die, and go we know not where, To lie in cold obstruction and to rot, This sensible warm motion to become kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice, To be imprisoned in the viewless winds And blown with restless violence round about The pendent world; or to be worse than worst Of those that lawless and incertain thought Imagine howling--'tis too horrible.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 47)
The weariest and most loathed worldly life That age, ache, penury, and imprisonment Can lay on nature is a paradise To what we fear of death.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 48)
Alas, alas!  Sweet sister, let me live. What sin you do to save a brother's life, Nature dispenses with the deed so far That it becomes a virtue.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 49)
you beast! faithless coward, dishonest wretch, Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 50)
Is 't not a kind of incest to take life From thine own sister's shame?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 51)
What should think? Heaven shield my mother played my father fair, For such a warped slip of wilderness Ne'er issued from his blood.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 52)
Take my defiance; Die, perish. Might but my bending down Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 53)
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death, No word to save thee.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 54)
Nay, hear me, Isabel--  fie, fie, fie! Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 55)
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd. 'Tis best that thou diest quickly.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 56)
hear me, Isabella--      Vouchsafe a word, young sister, but one word.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 57)
What is your will?  Might you dispense with your leisure, would by and by have some speech with you.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 58)
The satisfaction would require is likewise your own benefit.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 59)
have no superfluous leisure. My stay must be stolen out of other affairs, but will attend you awhile.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 60)
Son, have overheard what hath passed between you and your sister.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 61)
Angelo had never the purpose to corrupt her; only he hath made an assay of her virtue, to practice his judgment with the disposition of natures.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 62)
She, having the truth of honor in her, hath made him that gracious denial which he is most glad to receive.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 63)
am confessor to Angelo, and know this to be true.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 64)
Therefore prepare yourself to death. Do not satisfy your resolution with hopes that are fallible.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 65)
Tomorrow you must die. Go to your knees and make ready.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 66)
Let me ask my sister pardon. am so out of love with life that will sue to be rid of it.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 67)
Hold you there. Farewell.--Provost, a word with you.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 68)
What's your will, father?  That now you are come, you will be gone.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 69)
Leave me awhile with the maid. My mind promises with my habit no loss shall touch her by my company.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 70)
In good time.  The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 71)
The goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty brief in goodness, but grace, being the soul of your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever fair.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 72)
The assault that Angelo hath made to you, fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and but that frailty hath examples for his falling, should wonder at Angelo.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 73)
How will you do to content this substitute and to save your brother?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 74)
am now going to resolve him. had rather my brother die by the law than my son should be unlawfully born.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 75)
But, how much is the good duke deceived in Angelo!(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 76)
If ever he return, and can speak to him, will open my lips in vain, or discover his government.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 77)
That shall not be much amiss. Yet, as the matter now stands, he will avoid your accusation: he made trial of you only.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 78)
Therefore, fasten your ear on my advisings. To the love have in doing good, a remedy presents itself.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 79)
do make myself believe that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged lady a merited benefit, redeem your brother from the angry law, do no stain to your own gracious person, and much please the absent duke, if peradventure he shall ever return to have hearing of this business.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 80)
Let me hear you speak farther. have spirit to do anything that appears not foul in the truth of my spirit.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 81)
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of Frederick, the great soldier who miscarried at sea?(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 82)
have heard of the lady, and good words went with her name.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 83)
She should this Angelo have married, was affianced to her oath, and the nuptial appointed.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 84)
Between which time of the contract and limit of the solemnity, her brother Frederick was wracked at sea, having in that perished vessel the dowry of his sister.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 85)
But mark how heavily this befell to the poor gentlewoman.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 86)
There she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage dowry; with both, her combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 87)
Can this be so? Did Angelo so leave her?  Left her in her tears and dried not one of them with his comfort, swallowed his vows whole, pretending in her discoveries of dishonor; in few, bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears, is washed with them but relents not.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 88)
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from the world!(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 89)
What corruption in this life, that it will let this man live!(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 90)
But how out of this can she avail?  It is a rupture that you may easily heal, and the cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps you from dishonor in doing it.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 91)
Show me how, good father.  This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance of her first affection.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 92)
His unjust unkindness, that in all reason should have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current, made it more violent and unruly.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 93)
Go you to Angelo, answer his requiring with a plausible obedience, agree with his demands to the point.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 94)
Only refer yourself to this advantage: first, that your stay with him may not be long, that the time may have all shadow and silence in it, and the place answer to convenience.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 95)
This being granted in course, and now follows all: we shall advise this wronged maid to stead up your appointment, go in your place.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 96)
If the encounter acknowledge itself hereafter, it may compel him to her recompense; and here, by this, is your brother saved, your honor untainted, the poor Mariana advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 97)
The maid will frame and make fit for his attempt.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 98)
If you think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 99)
What think you of it?  The image of it gives me content already, and trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 100)
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily to Angelo.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 101)
If for this night he entreat you to his bed, give him promise of satisfaction.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 102)
will presently to Saint Luke's. There at the moated grange resides this dejected Mariana.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 103)
At that place call upon me, and dispatch with Angelo that it may be quickly.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 104)
thank you for this comfort. Fare you well, good father.(Measure for Measure, Act 17, Scene 105)
Nay, if there be no remedy for it but that you will needs buy and sell men and women like beasts, we shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 0)
heavens, what stuff is here?  'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by order of law a furred gown to keep him warm, and furred with fox and lambskins too, to signify that craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 1)
Come your way, sir.--Bless you, good father friar.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 2)
And you, good brother father. What offense hath this man made you, sir?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 3)
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law; and, sir, we take him to be a thief too, sir, for we have found upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have sent to the Deputy.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 4)
Fie, sirrah, a bawd, a wicked bawd! The evil that thou causest to be done, That is thy means to live.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 5)
Do thou but think What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back From such a filthy vice; say to thyself, From their abominable and beastly touches drink, eat, array myself, and live.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 6)
Canst thou believe thy living is a life, So stinkingly depending?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 7)
Go mend, go mend.  Indeed, it does stink in some sort, sir.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 8)
But yet, sir, would prove--   Nay, if the devil have given thee proofs for sin, Thou wilt prove his.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 9)
--Take him to prison, officer. Correction and instruction must both work Ere this rude beast will profit.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 10)
He must before the Deputy, sir; he has given him warning.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 11)
The Deputy cannot abide a whoremaster. If he be a whoremonger and comes before him, he were as good go a mile on his errand.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 12)
That we were all, as some would seem to be, From our faults, as faults from seeming, free.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 13)
His neck will come to your waist--a cord, sir.     spy comfort, cry bail.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 14)
Here's a gentleman and a friend of mine.  How now, noble Pompey?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 15)
What, at the wheels of Caesar? Art thou led in triumph?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 16)
What, is there none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and extracting it clutched?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 17)
What reply, ha? What sayst thou to this tune, matter, and method?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 18)
Is 't not drowned i' th' last rain, ha? What sayst thou, trot?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 19)
Is the world as it was, man? Which is the way? Is it sad and few words?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 20)
Or how? The trick of it?  Still thus, and thus; still worse.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 21)
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she still, ha?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 22)
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she is herself in the tub.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 23)
Why, 'tis good. It is the right of it. It must be so.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 24)
Ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd, an unshunned consequence; it must be so.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 25)
Art going to prison, Pompey?  Yes, faith, sir.  Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 26)
Farewell. Go say sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 27)
Or how?  For being a bawd, for being a bawd.  Well, then, imprison him.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 28)
If imprisonment be the due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 29)
Bawd is he, doubtless, and of antiquity too. Bawd born.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 30)
-- Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to the prison, Pompey.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 31)
You will turn good husband now, Pompey; you will keep the house.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 32)
hope, sir, your good Worship will be my bail.  No, indeed, will not, Pompey; it is not the wear.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 33)
will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage. If you take it not patiently, why, your mettle is the more.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 34)
Adieu, trusty Pompey.--Bless you, friar.  And you.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 35)
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?  Come your ways, sir, come.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 36)
You will not bail me, then, sir?  Then, Pompey, nor now.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 37)
--What news abroad, friar? What news?  Come your ways, sir, come.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 38)
Go to kennel, Pompey, go.  What news, friar, of the Duke?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 39)
know none. Can you tell me of any?  Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other some, he is in Rome.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 40)
But where is he, think you?  know not where, but wheresoever, wish him well.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 41)
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from the state and usurp the beggary he was never born to.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 42)
Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence. He puts transgression to 't.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 43)
He does well in 't.  little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in him.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 44)
Something too crabbed that way, friar.  It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 45)
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred; it is well allied, but it is impossible to extirp it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put down.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 46)
They say this Angelo was not made by man and woman after this downright way of creation.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 47)
Is it true, think you?  How should he be made, then?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 48)
Some report a sea-maid spawned him; some, that he was begot between two stockfishes.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 49)
But it is certain that when he makes water, his urine is congealed ice; that know to be true.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 50)
And he is a motion generative, that's infallible.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 51)
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.  Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a man!(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 52)
Would the duke that is absent have done this? Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing a thousand.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 53)
He had some feeling of the sport, he knew the service, and that instructed him to mercy.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 54)
never heard the absent duke much detected for women.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 55)
He was not inclined that way.  sir, you are deceived.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 56)
'Tis not possible.  Who, not the Duke? Yes, your beggar of fifty; and his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 57)
The Duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too, that let me inform you.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 58)
You do him wrong, surely.  Sir, was an inward of his.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 59)
shy fellow was the Duke, and believe know the cause of his withdrawing.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 60)
What, prithee, might be the cause?  No, pardon. 'Tis a secret must be locked within the teeth and the lips.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 61)
But this can let you understand: the greater file of the subject held the Duke to be wise.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 62)
Wise? Why, no question but he was.  very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 63)
Either this is envy in you, folly, or mistaking.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 64)
The very stream of his life and the business he hath helmed must, upon a warranted need, give him a better proclamation.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 65)
Let him be but testimonied in his own bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the envious a scholar, a statesman, and a soldier.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 66)
Therefore you speak unskillfully. Or, if your knowledge be more, it is much darkened in your malice.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 67)
Sir, know him, and love him.  Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer love.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 68)
Come, sir, know what know.  can hardly believe that, since you know not what you speak.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 69)
But if ever the Duke return, as our prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your answer before him.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 70)
If it be honest you have spoke, you have courage to maintain it.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 71)
am bound to call upon you, and, pray you, your name?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 72)
Sir, my name is Lucio, well known to the Duke.  He shall know you better, sir, if may live to report you.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 73)
fear you not.  you hope the Duke will return no more, or you imagine me too unhurtful an opposite.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 74)
But indeed can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 75)
I'll be hanged first. Thou art deceived in me, friar.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 76)
But no more of this. Canst thou tell if Claudio die tomorrow or no?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 77)
Why should he die, sir?  Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 78)
would the Duke we talk of were returned again. This ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with continency.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 79)
Sparrows must not build in his house eaves, because they are lecherous.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 80)
The Duke yet would have dark deeds darkly answered.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 81)
He would never bring them to light Would he were returned.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 82)
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing. Farewell, good friar.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 83)
prithee pray for me. The Duke, say to thee again, would eat mutton on Fridays.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 84)
He's now past it, yet--and say to thee-- he would mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 85)
Say that said so. Farewell.    No might nor greatness in mortality Can censure scape.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 86)
Back-wounding calumny The whitest virtue strikes.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 87)
What king so strong Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 88)
But who comes here?      Go, away with her to prison.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 89)
Good my lord, be good to me. Your Honor is accounted a merciful man, good my lord.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 90)
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in the same kind?(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 91)
This would make mercy swear and play the tyrant.  bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please your Honor.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 92)
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 93)
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the Duke's time; he promised her marriage.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 94)
His child is a year and a quarter old come Philip and Jacob.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 95)
have kept it myself, and see how he goes about to abuse me.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 96)
That fellow is a fellow of much license. Let him be called before us.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 97)
Away with her to prison.-- Go to, no more words. Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 98)
Claudio must die tomorrow. Let him be furnished with divines and have all charitable preparation.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 99)
If my brother wrought by my pity, it should not be so with him.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 100)
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and advised him for th' entertainment of death.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 101)
Good even, good father.  Bliss and goodness on you.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 102)
Of whence are you?   Not of this country, though my chance is now To use it for my time.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 103)
am a brother Of gracious order, late come from the See In special business from his Holiness.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 104)
What news abroad i' th' world?  None but that there is so great a fever on goodness that the dissolution of it must cure it.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 105)
Novelty is only in request, and it is as dangerous to be aged in any kind of course as it is virtuous to be constant in any undertaking.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 106)
There is scarce truth enough alive to make societies secure, but security enough to make fellowships accursed.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 107)
Much upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 108)
This news is old enough, yet it is every day's news.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 109)
pray you, sir, of what disposition was the Duke?  One that, above all other strifes, contended especially to know himself.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 110)
What pleasure was he given to?  Rather rejoicing to see another merry than merry at anything which professed to make him rejoice--a gentleman of all temperance.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 111)
But leave we him to his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous, and let me desire to know how you find Claudio prepared.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 112)
am made to understand that you have lent him visitation.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 113)
He professes to have received no sinister measure from his judge but most willingly humbles himself to the determination of justice.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 114)
Yet had he framed to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many deceiving promises of life, which by my good leisure, have discredited to him, and now is he resolved to die.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 115)
You have paid the heavens your function and the prisoner the very debt of your calling.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 116)
have labored for the poor gentleman to the extremest shore of my modesty, but my brother justice have found so severe that he hath forced me to tell him he is indeed Justice.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 117)
If his own life answer the straitness of his proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 118)
am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.  Peace be with you.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 119)
He who the sword of heaven will bear Should be as holy as severe, Pattern in himself to know, Grace to stand, and virtue go; More nor less to others paying Than by self-offenses weighing.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 120)
Shame to him whose cruel striking Kills for faults of his own liking.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 121)
Twice treble shame on Angelo, To weed my vice, and let his grow.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 122)
what may man within him hide, Though angel on the outward side!(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 123)
How may likeness made in crimes, Making practice on the times, To draw with idle spiders' strings Most ponderous and substantial things.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 124)
Craft against vice must apply. With Angelo tonight shall lie His old betrothed but despised.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 125)
So disguise shall, by th' disguised, Pay with falsehood false exacting And perform an old contracting.(Measure for Measure, Act 18, Scene 126)
How now, spirit? Whither wander you?   Over hill, over dale, Thorough bush, thorough brier, Over park, over pale, Thorough flood, thorough fire; do wander everywhere, Swifter than the moon's sphere.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 0)
And serve the Fairy Queen, To dew her orbs upon the green.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 1)
The cowslips tall her pensioners be; In their gold coats spots you see; Those be rubies, fairy favors; In those freckles live their savors.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 2)
must go seek some dewdrops here And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 3)
Farewell, thou lob of spirits. I'll be gone. Our queen and all her elves come here anon.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 4)
The King doth keep his revels here tonight. Take heed the Queen come not within his sight, For Oberon is passing fell and wrath Because that she, as her attendant, hath lovely boy stolen from an Indian king; She never had so sweet a changeling.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 5)
And jealous Oberon would have the child Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 6)
But she perforce withholds the loved boy, Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 7)
And now they never meet in grove or green, By fountain clear or spangled starlight sheen, But they do square, that all their elves for fear Creep into acorn cups and hide them there.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 8)
Either mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Called Robin Goodfellow.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 9)
Are not you he That frights the maidens of the villagery, Skim milk, and sometimes labor in the quern And bootless make the breathless huswife churn, And sometime make the drink to bear no barm, Mislead night wanderers, laughing at their harm?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 10)
Those that "Hobgoblin" call you and "sweet Puck," You do their work, and they shall have good luck.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 11)
Are not you he?  Thou speakest aright. am that merry wanderer of the night.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 12)
jest to Oberon and make him smile When a fat and bean-fed horse beguile, Neighing in likeness of a filly foal.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 13)
And sometime lurk in a gossip's bowl In very likeness of a roasted crab, And, when she drinks, against her lips bob And on her withered dewlap pour the ale.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 14)
The wisest aunt, telling the saddest tale, Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me; Then slip from her bum, down topples she And "Tailor!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 15)
" cries and falls into a cough, And then the whole choir hold their hips and loffe And waxen in their mirth and neeze and swear merrier hour was never wasted there.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 16)
But room, fairy. Here comes Oberon.   And here my mistress.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 17)
Would that he were gone!       Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 18)
What, jealous Oberon? Fairies, skip hence. have forsworn his bed and company.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 19)
Tarry, rash wanton. Am not thy lord?   Then must be thy lady.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 20)
But know When thou hast stolen away from Fairyland And in the shape of Corin sat all day Playing on pipes of corn and versing love To amorous Phillida.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 21)
Why art thou here, Come from the farthest steep of India, But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon, Your buskined mistress and your warrior love, To Theseus must be wedded, and you come To give their bed joy and prosperity?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 22)
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania, Glance at my credit with Hippolyta, Knowing know thy love to Theseus?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 23)
Didst not thou lead him through the glimmering night From Perigouna, whom he ravished, And make him with fair Aegles break his faith, With Ariadne and Antiopa?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 24)
These are the forgeries of jealousy; And never, since the middle summer's spring, Met we on hill, in dale, forest, or mead, By paved fountain or by rushy brook, Or in the beached margent of the sea, To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind, But with thy brawls thou hast disturbed our sport.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 25)
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain, As in revenge have sucked up from the sea Contagious fogs, which, falling in the land, Hath every pelting river made so proud That they have overborne their continents.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 26)
The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain, The plowman lost his sweat, and the green corn Hath rotted ere his youth attained a beard.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 27)
The fold stands empty in the drowned field, And crows are fatted with the murrain flock.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 28)
The nine-men's-morris is filled up with mud, And the quaint mazes in the wanton green, For lack of tread, are undistinguishable.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 29)
The human mortals want their winter here. No night is now with hymn or carol blessed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 30)
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods, Pale in her anger, washes all the air, That rheumatic diseases do abound.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 31)
And thorough this distemperature we see The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts Fall in the fresh lap of the crimson rose, And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds Is, as in mockery, set.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 32)
The spring, the summer, The childing autumn, angry winter, change Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world By their increase now knows not which is which.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 33)
And this same progeny of evils comes From our debate, from our dissension; We are their parents and original.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 34)
Do you amend it, then. It lies in you. Why should Titania cross her Oberon?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 35)
do but beg a little changeling boy To be my henchman.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 36)
Set your heart at rest: The Fairyland buys not the child of me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 37)
His mother was a vot'ress of my order, And in the spiced Indian air by night Full often hath she gossiped by my side And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands, Marking th' embarked traders on the flood, When we have laughed to see the sails conceive And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind; Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait, Following (her womb then rich with my young squire), Would imitate and sail upon the land To fetch me trifles and return again, As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 38)
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die, And for her sake do rear up her boy, And for her sake will not part with him.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 39)
How long within this wood intend you stay?   Perchance till after Theseus' wedding day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 40)
If you will patiently dance in our round And see our moonlight revels, go with us.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 41)
If not, shun me, and will spare your haunts.   Give me that boy and will go with thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 42)
Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away. We shall chide downright if longer stay.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 43)
Well, go thy way. Thou shalt not from this grove Till torment thee for this injury.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 44)
-- My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememb'rest Since once sat upon a promontory And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath That the rude sea grew civil at her song And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the sea-maid's music.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 45)
remember.   That very time saw (but thou couldst not), Flying between the cold moon and the Earth, Cupid all armed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 46)
certain aim he took At a fair vestal throned by the west, And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 47)
But might see young Cupid's fiery shaft Quenched in the chaste beams of the wat'ry moon, And the imperial vot'ress passed on In maiden meditation, fancy-free.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 48)
Yet marked where the bolt of Cupid fell. It fell upon a little western flower, Before, milk-white, now purple with love's wound, And maidens call it "love-in-idleness.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 49)
" Fetch me that flower; the herb showed thee once.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 50)
The juice of it on sleeping eyelids laid Will make or man or woman madly dote Upon the next live creature that it sees.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 51)
Fetch me this herb, and be thou here again Ere the leviathan can swim a league.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 52)
I'll put a girdle round about the Earth In forty minutes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 53)
Having once this juice, I'll watch Titania when she is asleep And drop the liquor of it in her eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 54)
The next thing then she, waking, looks upon (Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape) She shall pursue it with the soul of love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 55)
And ere take this charm from off her sight (As can take it with another herb), I'll make her render up her page to me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 56)
But who comes here? am invisible, And will overhear their conference.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 57)
love thee not; therefore pursue me not. Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 58)
The one I'll stay; the other stayeth me. Thou told'st me they were stol'n unto this wood, And here am and wood within this wood Because cannot meet my Hermia.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 59)
Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.   You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 60)
But yet you draw not iron, for my heart Is true as steel.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 61)
Leave you your power to draw, And shall have no power to follow you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 62)
Do entice you? Do speak you fair? Or rather do not in plainest truth Tell you do not, nor cannot love you?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 63)
And even for that do love you the more. am your spaniel, and, Demetrius, The more you beat me will fawn on you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 64)
Use me but as your spaniel: spurn me, strike me, Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave (Unworthy as am) to follow you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 65)
What worser place can beg in your love (And yet a place of high respect with me) Than to be used as you use your dog?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 66)
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit, For am sick when do look on thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 67)
And am sick when look not on you.   You do impeach your modesty too much To leave the city and commit yourself Into the hands of one that loves you not, To trust the opportunity of night And the ill counsel of a desert place With the rich worth of your virginity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 68)
Your virtue is my privilege. For that It is not night when do see your face, Therefore think am not in the night.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 69)
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company, For you, in my respect, are all the world.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 70)
Then, how can it be said am alone When all the world is here to look on me?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 71)
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 72)
The wildest hath not such a heart as you. Run when you will.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 73)
The story shall be changed: Apollo flies and Daphne holds the chase; The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind Makes speed to catch the tiger.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 74)
Bootless speed When cowardice pursues and valor flies!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 75)
will not stay thy questions. Let me go, Or if thou follow me, do not believe But shall do thee mischief in the wood.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 76)
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field, You do me mischief.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 77)
Fie, Demetrius! Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 78)
We cannot fight for love as men may do. We should be wooed and were not made to woo.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 79)
I'll follow thee and make a heaven of hell To die upon the hand love so well.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 80)
Fare thee well, nymph. Ere he do leave this grove, Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 81)
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 82)
Ay, there it is.  pray thee give it me.  know a bank where the wild thyme blows, Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows, Quite overcanopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet muskroses, and with eglantine.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 83)
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night, Lulled in these flowers with dances and delight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 84)
And there the snake throws her enameled skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 85)
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes And make her full of hateful fantasies.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 86)
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 87)
sweet Athenian lady is in love With a disdainful youth.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 88)
Anoint his eyes, But do it when the next thing he espies May be the lady.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 89)
Thou shalt know the man By the Athenian garments he hath on.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 90)
Effect it with some care, that he may prove More fond on her than she upon her love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 91)
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.   Fear not, my lord.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 0, Scene 92)
2        Come, now a roundel and a fairy song; Then, for the third part of a minute, hence-- Some to kill cankers in the muskrose buds, Some war with reremice for their leathern wings To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders At our quaint spirits.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 0)
Sing me now asleep. Then to your offices and let me rest.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 1)
You spotted snakes with double tongue, Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 2)
Newts and blindworms, do no wrong, Come not near our Fairy Queen.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 3)
Philomel, with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 4)
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby. Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 5)
So good night, with lullaby.   Weaving spiders, come not here.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 6)
Hence, you long-legged spinners, hence. Beetles black, approach not near.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 7)
Worm nor snail, do no offence.   Philomel, with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 8)
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby. Never harm Nor spell nor charm Come our lovely lady nigh.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 9)
So good night, with lullaby.    Hence, away! Now all is well.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 10)
One aloof stand sentinel.       What thou seest when thou dost wake Do it for thy true love take.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 11)
Love and languish for his sake. Be it ounce, or cat, or bear, Pard, or boar with bristled hair, In thy eye that shall appear When thou wak'st, it is thy dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 12)
Wake when some vile thing is near.      Fair love, you faint with wand'ring in the wood.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 13)
And, to speak troth, have forgot our way. We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good, And tarry for the comfort of the day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 14)
Be it so, Lysander. Find you out a bed, For upon this bank will rest my head.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 15)
One turf shall serve as pillow for us both; One heart, one bed, two bosoms, and one troth.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 16)
Nay, good Lysander. For my sake, my dear, Lie further off yet.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 17)
Do not lie so near.   take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 18)
Love takes the meaning in love's conference. mean that my heart unto yours is knit, So that but one heart we can make of it; Two bosoms interchained with an oath-- So then two bosoms and a single troth.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 19)
Then by your side no bed-room me deny, For lying so, Hermia, do not lie.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 20)
Lysander riddles very prettily. Now much beshrew my manners and my pride If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 21)
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy, Lie further off in human modesty.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 22)
Such separation, as may well be said, Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 23)
So far be distant; and good night, sweet friend. Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 24)
"Amen, amen" to that fair prayer, say And then end life when end loyalty!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 25)
Here is my bed. Sleep give thee all his rest!   With half that wish the wisher's eyes be pressed!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 26)
Through the forest have gone, But Athenian found none On whose eyes might approve This flower's force in stirring love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 27)
Night and silence! Who is here? Weeds of Athens he doth wear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 28)
This is he my master said Despised the Athenian maid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 29)
And here the maiden, sleeping sound On the dank and dirty ground.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 30)
Pretty soul, she durst not lie Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 31)
-- Churl, upon thy eyes throw All the power this charm doth owe.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 32)
When thou wak'st, let love forbid Sleep his seat on thy eyelid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 33)
So, awake when am gone, For must now to Oberon.      Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 34)
charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.   wilt thou darkling leave me?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 35)
Do not so.   Stay, on thy peril. alone will go.   am out of breath in this fond chase.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 36)
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace. Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies, For she hath blessed and attractive eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 37)
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 38)
If so, my eyes are oftener washed than hers. No, no, am as ugly as a bear, For beasts that meet me run away for fear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 39)
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius Do as a monster fly my presence thus.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 40)
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 41)
But who is here? Lysander, on the ground! Dead or asleep?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 42)
see no blood, no wound.-- Lysander, if you live, good sir, awake.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 43)
And run through fire will for thy sweet sake. Transparent Helena!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 44)
Nature shows art, That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 45)
Where is Demetrius? how fit a word Is that vile name to perish on my sword!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 46)
Do not say so. Lysander, say not so. What though he love your Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 47)
Lord, what though? Yet Hermia still loves you. Then be content.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 48)
Content with Hermia? No, do repent The tedious minutes with her have spent.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 49)
Not Hermia, but Helena love. Who will not change a raven for a dove?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 50)
The will of man is by his reason swayed, And reason says you are the worthier maid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 51)
Things growing are not ripe until their season; So being young, till now ripe not to reason.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 52)
And touching now the point of human skill, Reason becomes the marshal to my will And leads me to your eyes, where o'erlook Love's stories written in love's richest book.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 53)
Wherefore was to this keen mockery born? When at your hands did deserve this scorn?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 54)
Is 't not enough, is 't not enough, young man, That did never, no, nor never can Deserve a sweet look from Demetrius' eye, But you must flout my insufficiency?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 55)
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do, In such disdainful manner me to woo.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 56)
But fare you well. Perforce must confess thought you lord of more true gentleness.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 57)
that a lady of one man refused Should of another therefore be abused!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 58)
She sees not Hermia.--Hermia, sleep thou there, And never mayst thou come Lysander near.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 59)
For, as a surfeit of the sweetest things The deepest loathing to the stomach brings, Or as the heresies that men do leave Are hated most of those they did deceive, So thou, my surfeit and my heresy, Of all be hated, but the most of me!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 60)
And, all my powers, address your love and might To honor Helen and to be her knight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 61)
Help me, Lysander, help me! Do thy best To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 62)
Ay me, for pity! What a dream was here! Lysander, look how do quake with fear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 63)
Methought a serpent ate my heart away, And you sat smiling at his cruel prey.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 64)
Lysander! What, removed? Lysander, lord! What, out of hearing?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 65)
Gone? No sound, no word? Alack, where are you? Speak, an if you hear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 66)
Speak, of all loves! swoon almost with fear.-- No?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 67)
Then well perceive you are not nigh. Either death or you I'll find immediately.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 1, Scene 68)
Are we all met?  Pat, pat. And here's a marvels convenient place for our rehearsal.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 0)
This green plot shall be our stage, this hawthorn brake our tiring-house, and we will do it in action as we will do it before the Duke.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 1)
Peter Quince?  What sayest thou, bully Bottom?  There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and Thisbe that will never please.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 2)
First, Pyramus must draw a sword to kill himself, which the ladies cannot abide.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 3)
How answer you that?  By 'r lakin, a parlous fear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 4)
believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 5)
Not a whit! have a device to make all well. Write me a prologue, and let the prologue seem to say we will do no harm with our swords and that Pyramus is not killed indeed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 6)
And, for the more better assurance, tell them that Pyramus, am not Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 7)
This will put them out of fear.  Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be written in eight and six.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 8)
No, make it two more. Let it be written in eight and eight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 9)
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?  fear it, promise you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 10)
Masters, you ought to consider with yourself, to bring in (God shield us!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 11)
) a lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing. For there is not a more fearful wildfowl than your lion living, and we ought to look to 't.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 12)
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 13)
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must be seen through the lion's neck, and he himself must speak through, saying thus, or to the same defect: "Ladies," or "Fair ladies, would wish you," or would request you," or would entreat you not to fear, not to tremble!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 14)
My life for yours. If you think come hither as a lion, it were pity of my life.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 15)
No, am no such thing. am a man as other men are." And there indeed let him name his name and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 16)
Well, it shall be so. But there is two hard things: that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber, for you know Pyramus and Thisbe meet by moonlight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 17)
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 18)
calendar, a calendar! Look in the almanac. Find out moonshine, find out moonshine.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 19)
Yes, it doth shine that night.  Why, then, may you leave a casement of the great chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon may shine in at the casement.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 20)
Ay, or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lantern and say he comes to disfigure or to present the person of Moonshine.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 21)
Then there is another thing: we must have a wall in the great chamber, for Pyramus and Thisbe, says the story, did talk through the chink of a wall.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 22)
You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 23)
Some man or other must present Wall. And let him have some plaster, or some loam, or some roughcast about him to signify wall, or let him hold his fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus and Thisbe whisper.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 24)
If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit down, every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 25)
Pyramus, you begin. When you have spoken your speech, enter into that brake, and so everyone according to his cue.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 26)
What hempen homespuns have we swagg'ring here So near the cradle of the Fairy Queen?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 27)
What, a play toward? I'll be an auditor-- An actor too perhaps, if see cause.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 28)
Speak, Pyramus.--Thisbe, stand forth.   Thisbe, the flowers of odious savors sweet--  Odors, odors!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 29)
...odors savors sweet. So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisbe dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 30)
-- But hark, a voice! Stay thou but here awhile, And by and by will to thee appear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 31)
stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.  Must speak now?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 32)
Ay, marry, must you, for you must understand he goes but to see a noise that he heard and is to come again.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 33)
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue, Of color like the red rose on triumphant brier, Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew, As true as truest horse, that yet would never tire.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 34)
I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.  "Ninus' tomb," man!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 35)
Why, you must not speak that yet. That you answer to Pyramus.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 36)
You speak all your part at once, cues and all.--Pyramus, enter.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 37)
Your cue is past. It is "never tire."   As true as truest horse, that yet would never tire.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 38)
If were fair, fair Thisbe, were only thine.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 39)
monstrous! strange! We are haunted. Pray, masters, fly, masters!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 40)
Help!    I'll follow you. I'll lead you about a round, Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 41)
Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound, hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire, And neigh and bark and grunt and roar and burn, Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 42)
Why do they run away? This is a knavery of them to make me afeard.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 43)
Bottom, thou art changed! What do see on thee?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 44)
What do you see? You see an ass-head of your own, do you?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 45)
Bless thee, Bottom, bless thee! Thou art translated!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 46)
see their knavery. This is to make an ass of me, to fright me, if they could.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 47)
But will not stir from this place, do what they can.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 48)
will walk up and down here, and will sing, that they shall hear am not afraid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 49)
The ouzel cock, so black of hue, With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true, The wren with little quill--   What angel wakes me from my flow'ry bed?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 50)
The finch, the sparrow, and the lark, The plainsong cuckoo gray, Whose note full many a man doth mark And dares not answer "nay"-- for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 51)
Who would give a bird the lie though he cry "cuckoo" never so?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 52)
pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again. Mine ear is much enamored of thy note, So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape, And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me On the first view to say, to swear, love thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 53)
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason for that.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 54)
And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company together nowadays.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 55)
The more the pity that some honest neighbors will not make them friends.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 56)
Nay, can gleek upon occasion.   Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 57)
Not so neither; but if had wit enough to get out of this wood, have enough to serve mine own turn.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 58)
Out of this wood do not desire to go. Thou shalt remain here whether thou wilt or no.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 59)
am a spirit of no common rate. The summer still doth tend upon my state, And do love thee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 60)
Therefore go with me. I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee, And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 61)
And will purge thy mortal grossness so That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 62)
-- Peaseblossom, Cobweb, Mote, and Mustardseed!      Ready.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 63)
And  And  And  Where shall we go?   Be kind and courteous to this gentleman.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 64)
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes; Feed him with apricocks and dewberries, With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries; The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs And light them at the fiery glowworms' eyes To have my love to bed and to arise; And pluck the wings from painted butterflies To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 65)
Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.  Hail, mortal!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 66)
Hail!  Hail!  Hail!  cry your Worships mercy, heartily.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 67)
--I beseech your Worship's name.  Cobweb.  shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 68)
If cut my finger, shall make bold with you.--Your name, honest gentleman?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 69)
Peaseblossom.  pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your mother, and to Master Peascod, your father.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 70)
Good Master Peaseblossom, shall desire you of more acquaintance too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 71)
--Your name, beseech you, sir?  Mustardseed.  Good Master Mustardseed, know your patience well.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 72)
That same cowardly, giantlike ox-beef hath devoured many a gentleman of your house.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 73)
promise you, your kindred hath made my eyes water ere now.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 74)
desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Mustardseed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 75)
Come, wait upon him. Lead him to my bower. The moon, methinks, looks with a wat'ry eye, And when she weeps, weeps every little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 9, Scene 76)
3        wonder if Titania be awaked; Then what it was that next came in her eye, Which she must dote on in extremity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 0)
Here comes my messenger. How now, mad spirit? What night-rule now about this haunted grove?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 1)
My mistress with a monster is in love. Near to her close and consecrated bower, While she was in her dull and sleeping hour, crew of patches, rude mechanicals, That work for bread upon Athenian stalls, Were met together to rehearse a play Intended for great Theseus' nuptial day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 2)
The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort, Who Pyramus presented in their sport, Forsook his scene and entered in a brake.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 3)
When did him at this advantage take, An ass's noll fixed on his head.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 4)
Anon his Thisbe must be answered, And forth my mimic comes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 5)
When they him spy, As wild geese that the creeping fowler eye, Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort, Rising and cawing at the gun's report, Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky, So at his sight away his fellows fly, And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 6)
He "Murder" cries and help from Athens calls. Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears thus strong, Made senseless things begin to do them wrong; For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch, Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all things catch.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 7)
led them on in this distracted fear And left sweet Pyramus translated there.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 8)
When in that moment, so it came to pass, Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 9)
This falls out better than could devise. But hast thou yet latched the Athenian's eyes With the love juice, as did bid thee do?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 10)
took him sleeping--that is finished, too-- And the Athenian woman by his side, That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 11)
Stand close. This is the same Athenian.   This is the woman, but not this the man.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 12)
why rebuke you him that loves you so? Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 13)
Now but chide, but should use thee worse, For thou, fear, hast given me cause to curse.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 14)
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep, Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep And kill me too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 15)
The sun was not so true unto the day As he to me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 16)
Would he have stolen away From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon This whole Earth may be bored, and that the moon May through the center creep and so displease Her brother's noontide with th' Antipodes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 17)
It cannot be but thou hast murdered him. So should a murderer look, so dead, so grim.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 18)
So should the murdered look, and so should Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 19)
Yet you, the murderer, look as bright, as clear, As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 20)
What's this to my Lysander? Where is he? Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 21)
had rather give his carcass to my hounds.   Out, dog!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 22)
Out, cur! Thou driv'st me past the bounds Of maiden's patience.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 23)
Hast thou slain him, then? Henceforth be never numbered among men.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 24)
once tell true! Tell true, even for my sake! Durst thou have looked upon him, being awake?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 25)
And hast thou killed him sleeping? brave touch! Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 26)
An adder did it, for with doubler tongue Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 27)
You spend your passion on a misprised mood. am not guilty of Lysander's blood, Nor is he dead, for aught that can tell.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 28)
pray thee, tell me then that he is well.   An if could, what should get therefor?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 29)
privilege never to see me more. And from thy hated presence part so.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 30)
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.    There is no following her in this fierce vein.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 31)
Here, therefore, for a while will remain. So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow For debt that bankrout sleep doth sorrow owe, Which now in some slight measure it will pay, If for his tender here make some stay.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 32)
What hast thou done? Thou hast mistaken quite And laid the love juice on some true-love's sight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 33)
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue Some true-love turned, and not a false turned true.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 34)
Then fate o'errules, that, one man holding troth, million fail, confounding oath on oath.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 35)
About the wood go swifter than the wind, And Helena of Athens look thou find.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 36)
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer With sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 37)
By some illusion see thou bring her here. I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 38)
go, go, look how go, Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 39)
Flower of this purple dye, Hit with Cupid's archery, Sink in apple of his eye.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 40)
When his love he doth espy, Let her shine as gloriously As the Venus of the sky.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 41)
-- When thou wak'st, if she be by, Beg of her for remedy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 42)
Captain of our fairy band, Helena is here at hand, And the youth, mistook by me, Pleading for a lover's fee.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 43)
Shall we their fond pageant see? Lord, what fools these mortals be!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 44)
Stand aside. The noise they make Will cause Demetrius to awake.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 45)
Then will two at once woo one. That must needs be sport alone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 46)
And those things do best please me That befall prepost'rously.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 47)
Why should you think that should woo in scorn?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 48)
Scorn and derision never come in tears. Look when vow, weep; and vows so born, In their nativity all truth appears.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 49)
How can these things in me seem scorn to you, Bearing the badge of faith to prove them true?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 50)
You do advance your cunning more and more. When truth kills truth, devilish holy fray!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 51)
These vows are Hermia's. Will you give her o'er? Weigh oath with oath and you will nothing weigh.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 52)
Your vows to her and me, put in two scales, Will even weigh, and both as light as tales.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 53)
had no judgment when to her swore.   Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 54)
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.   Helen, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 55)
To what, my love, shall compare thine eyne? Crystal is muddy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 56)
how ripe in show Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 57)
That pure congealed white, high Taurus' snow, Fanned with the eastern wind, turns to a crow When thou hold'st up thy hand.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 58)
let me kiss This princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 59)
spite! hell! see you all are bent To set against me for your merriment.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 60)
If you were civil and knew courtesy, You would not do me thus much injury.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 61)
Can you not hate me, as know you do, But you must join in souls to mock me too?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 62)
If you were men, as men you are in show, You would not use a gentle lady so, To vow and swear and superpraise my parts, When, am sure, you hate me with your hearts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 63)
You both are rivals and love Hermia, And now both rivals to mock Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 64)
trim exploit, a manly enterprise, To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes With your derision!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 65)
None of noble sort Would so offend a virgin and extort poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 66)
You are unkind, Demetrius. Be not so, For you love Hermia; this you know know.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 67)
And here with all goodwill, with all my heart, In Hermia's love yield you up my part.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 68)
And yours of Helena to me bequeath, Whom do love and will do till my death.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 69)
Never did mockers waste more idle breath.   Lysander, keep thy Hermia.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 70)
will none. If e'er loved her, all that love is gone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 71)
My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourned, And now to Helen is it home returned, There to remain.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 72)
Helen, it is not so.   Disparage not the faith thou dost not know, Lest to thy peril thou aby it dear.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 73)
Look where thy love comes. Yonder is thy dear.      Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, The ear more quick of apprehension makes; Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, It pays the hearing double recompense.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 74)
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found; Mine ear, thank it, brought me to thy sound.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 75)
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?   Why should he stay whom love doth press to go?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 76)
What love could press Lysander from my side?   Lysander's love, that would not let him bide, Fair Helena, who more engilds the night Than all yon fiery oes and eyes of light.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 77)
Why seek'st thou me? Could not this make thee know The hate bear thee made me leave thee so?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 78)
You speak not as you think. It cannot be.   Lo, she is one of this confederacy!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 79)
Now perceive they have conjoined all three To fashion this false sport in spite of me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 80)
-- Injurious Hermia, most ungrateful maid, Have you conspired, have you with these contrived, To bait me with this foul derision?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 81)
Is all the counsel that we two have shared, The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent When we have chid the hasty-footed time For parting us--O, is all forgot?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 82)
All schooldays' friendship, childhood innocence? We, Hermia, like two artificial gods, Have with our needles created both one flower, Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion, Both warbling of one song, both in one key, As if our hands, our sides, voices, and minds Had been incorporate.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 83)
So we grew together Like to a double cherry, seeming parted, But yet an union in partition, Two lovely berries molded on one stem; So with two seeming bodies but one heart, Two of the first, like coats in heraldry, Due but to one, and crowned with one crest.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 84)
And will you rent our ancient love asunder, To join with men in scorning your poor friend?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 85)
It is not friendly; 'tis not maidenly. Our sex, as well as may chide you for it, Though alone do feel the injury.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 86)
am amazed at your words. scorn you not. It seems that you scorn me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 87)
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn, To follow me and praise my eyes and face, And made your other love, Demetrius, Who even but now did spurn me with his foot, To call me goddess, nymph, divine and rare, Precious, celestial?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 88)
Wherefore speaks he this To her he hates? And wherefore doth Lysander Deny your love (so rich within his soul) And tender me, forsooth, affection, But by your setting on, by your consent?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 89)
What though be not so in grace as you, So hung upon with love, so fortunate, But miserable most, to love unloved?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 90)
This you should pity rather than despise.   understand not what you mean by this.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 91)
Ay, do. Persever, counterfeit sad looks, Make mouths upon me when turn my back, Wink each at other, hold the sweet jest up.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 92)
This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled. If you have any pity, grace, or manners, You would not make me such an argument.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 93)
But fare you well. 'Tis partly my own fault, Which death or absence soon shall remedy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 94)
Stay, gentle Helena. Hear my excuse, My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 95)
excellent!   Sweet, do not scorn her so.   If she cannot entreat, can compel.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 96)
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat. Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 97)
-- Helen, love thee. By my life, do. swear by that which will lose for thee, To prove him false that says love thee not.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 98)
say love thee more than he can do.   If thou say so, withdraw and prove it too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 99)
Quick, come.  Lysander, whereto tends all this?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 100)
Away, you Ethiop!   No, no. He'll Seem to break loose.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 101)
Take on as you would follow, But yet come not. You are a tame man, go!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 102)
Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! Vile thing, let loose, Or will shake thee from me like a serpent.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 103)
Why are you grown so rude? What change is this, Sweet love?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 104)
Thy love? Out, tawny Tartar, out! Out, loathed med'cine!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 105)
hated potion, hence!   Do you not jest?  Yes, sooth, and so do you.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 106)
Demetrius, will keep my word with thee.   would had your bond.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 107)
For perceive weak bond holds you. I'll not trust your word.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 108)
What? Should hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 109)
Although hate her, I'll not harm her so.   What, can you do me greater harm than hate?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 110)
Hate me? Wherefore? me, what news, my love? Am not Hermia?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 111)
Are not you Lysander? am as fair now as was erewhile.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 112)
Since night you loved me; yet since night you left me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 113)
Why, then, you left me--O, the gods forbid!-- In earnest, shall say?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 114)
Ay, by my life, And never did desire to see thee more.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 115)
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt. Be certain, nothing truer, 'tis no jest That do hate thee and love Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 116)
me!  You juggler, you cankerblossom, You thief of love!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 117)
What, have you come by night And stol'n my love's heart from him?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 118)
Fine, i' faith. Have you no modesty, no maiden shame, No touch of bashfulness?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 119)
What, will you tear Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 120)
Fie, fie, you counterfeit, you puppet, you!   "Puppet"?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 121)
Why so? Ay, that way goes the game. Now perceive that she hath made compare Between our statures; she hath urged her height, And with her personage, her tall personage, Her height, forsooth, she hath prevailed with him.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 122)
And are you grown so high in his esteem Because am so dwarfish and so low?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 123)
How low am thou painted maypole? Speak! How low am am not yet so low But that my nails can reach unto thine eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 124)
pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen, Let her not hurt me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 125)
was never curst; have no gift at all in shrewishness.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 126)
am a right maid for my cowardice. Let her not strike me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 127)
You perhaps may think, Because she is something lower than myself, That can match her.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 128)
"Lower"? Hark, again!   Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 129)
evermore did love you, Hermia, Did ever keep your counsels, never wronged you-- Save that, in love unto Demetrius, told him of your stealth unto this wood.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 130)
He followed you; for love, followed him. But he hath chid me hence and threatened me To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 131)
And now, so you will let me quiet go, To Athens will bear my folly back And follow you no further.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 132)
Let me go. You see how simple and how fond am.   Why, get you gone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 133)
Who is 't that hinders you?   foolish heart that leave here behind.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 134)
What, with Lysander?  With Demetrius.   Be not afraid.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 135)
She shall not harm thee, Helena.   No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 136)
when she is angry, she is keen and shrewd. She was a vixen when she went to school, And though she be but little, she is fierce.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 137)
"Little" again? Nothing but "low" and "little"?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 138)
Why will you suffer her to flout me thus? Let me come to her.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 139)
Get you gone, you dwarf, You minimus of hind'ring knotgrass made, You bead, you acorn--  You are too officious In her behalf that scorns your services.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 140)
Let her alone. Speak not of Helena. Take not her part.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 141)
For if thou dost intend Never so little show of love to her, Thou shalt aby it.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 142)
Now she holds me not. Now follow, if thou dar'st, to try whose right, Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 143)
"Follow"? Nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jowl.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 144)
You, mistress, all this coil is long of you.  Nay, go not back.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 145)
will not trust you, Nor longer stay in your curst company.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 146)
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray. My legs are longer though, to run away.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 147)
am amazed and know not what to say.   This is thy negligence.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 148)
Still thou mistak'st, Or else committ'st thy knaveries willfully.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 149)
Believe me, king of shadows, mistook. Did not you tell me should know the man By the Athenian garments he had on?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 150)
And so far blameless proves my enterprise That have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes; And so far am glad it so did sort, As this their jangling esteem a sport.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 151)
Thou seest these lovers seek a place to fight. Hie, therefore, Robin, overcast the night; The starry welkin cover thou anon With drooping fog as black as Acheron, And lead these testy rivals so astray As one come not within another's way.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 152)
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue; Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 153)
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius. And from each other look thou lead them thus, Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 154)
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye,  Whose liquor hath this virtuous property, To take from thence all error with his might And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 155)
When they next wake, all this derision Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 156)
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend, With league whose date till death shall never end.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 157)
Whiles in this affair do thee employ, I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy; And then will her charmed eye release From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 158)
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste, For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast, And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger, At whose approach, ghosts wand'ring here and there Troop home to churchyards.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 159)
Damned spirits all, That in crossways and floods have burial, Already to their wormy beds are gone.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 160)
For fear lest day should look their shames upon, They willfully themselves exile from light And must for aye consort with black-browed night.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 161)
But we are spirits of another sort. with the Morning's love have oft made sport And, like a forester, the groves may tread Even till the eastern gate, all fiery red, Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams, Turns into yellow gold his salt-green streams.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 162)
But notwithstanding, haste! Make no delay. We may effect this business yet ere day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 163)
Up and down, up and down, will lead them up and down.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 164)
am feared in field and town. Goblin, lead them up and down.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 165)
Here comes one.      Where art thou, proud Demetrius?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 166)
Speak thou now.   Here, villain, drawn and ready.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 167)
Where art thou?  will be with thee straight.  Follow me, then, to plainer ground.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 168)
Lysander, speak again. Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 169)
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 170)
Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars, Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars, And wilt not come?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 171)
Come, recreant! Come, thou child! I'll whip thee with a rod.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 172)
He is defiled That draws a sword on thee.  Yea, art thou there?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 173)
Follow my voice. We'll try no manhood here.       He goes before me and still dares me on.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 174)
When come where he calls, then he is gone. The villain is much lighter-heeled than followed fast, but faster he did fly, That fallen am in dark uneven way, And here will rest me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 175)
Come, thou gentle day, For if but once thou show me thy gray light, I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 176)
Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why com'st thou not?   Abide me, if thou dar'st, for well wot Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place, And dar'st not stand nor look me in the face.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 177)
Where art thou now?   Come hither. am here.   Nay, then, thou mock'st me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 178)
Thou shalt buy this dear If ever thy face by daylight see.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 179)
Now go thy way. Faintness constraineth me To measure out my length on this cold bed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 180)
By day's approach look to be visited.       weary night, long and tedious night, Abate thy hours!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 181)
Shine, comforts, from the east, That may back to Athens by daylight From these that my poor company detest.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 182)
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye, Steal me awhile from mine own company.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 183)
Yet but three? Come one more. Two of both kinds makes up four.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 184)
Here she comes, curst and sad. Cupid is a knavish lad Thus to make poor females mad.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 185)
Never so weary, never so in woe, Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers, can no further crawl, no further go.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 186)
My legs can keep no pace with my desires. Here will rest me till the break of day.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 187)
Heavens shield Lysander if they mean a fray!    On the ground Sleep sound.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 188)
I'll apply To your eye, Gentle lover, remedy.    When thou wak'st, Thou tak'st True delight In the sight Of thy former lady's eye.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 189)
And the country proverb known, That every man should take his own, In your waking shall be shown.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 190)
Jack shall have Jill; Naught shall go ill; The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 10, Scene 191)
Titania, Queen of Fairies, and Bottom and Fairies, and Oberon, the King, behind them unseen by those     Come, sit thee down upon this flow'ry bed, While thy amiable cheeks do coy, And stick muskroses in thy sleek smooth head, And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 0)
Where's Peaseblossom?  Ready.  Scratch my head, Peaseblossom.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 1)
Where's Monsieur Cobweb?  Ready.  Monsieur Cobweb, good monsieur, get you your weapons in your hand and kill me a red-hipped humble-bee on the top of a thistle, and, good monsieur, bring me the honey-bag.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 2)
Do not fret yourself too much in the action, monsieur, and, good monsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not; would be loath to have you overflown with a honey-bag, signior.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 3)
Where's Monsieur Mustardseed?  Ready.  Give me your neaf, Monsieur Mustardseed.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 4)
Pray you, leave your courtesy, good monsieur.  What's your will?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 5)
Nothing, good monsieur, but to help Cavalery Cobweb to scratch.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 6)
must to the barber's, monsieur, for methinks am marvels hairy about the face.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 7)
And am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me, must scratch.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 8)
What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 9)
have a reasonable good ear in music. Let's have the tongs and the bones.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 10)
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.  Truly, a peck of provender.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 11)
could munch your good dry oats. Methinks have a great desire to a bottle of hay.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 12)
Good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.   have a venturous fairy that shall seek The squirrel's hoard and fetch thee new nuts.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 13)
had rather have a handful or two of dried peas. But, pray you, let none of your people stir me; have an exposition of sleep come upon me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 14)
Sleep thou, and will wind thee in my arms.-- Fairies, begone, and be all ways away.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 15)
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle Gently entwist; the female ivy so Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 16)
how love thee! How dote on thee!       Welcome, good Robin.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 17)
Seest thou this sweet sight? Her dotage now do begin to pity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 18)
For, meeting her of late behind the wood, Seeking sweet favors for this hateful fool, did upbraid her and fall out with her.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 19)
For she his hairy temples then had rounded With coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers; And that same dew, which sometime on the buds Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls, Stood now within the pretty flouriets' eyes, Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 20)
When had at my pleasure taunted her, And she in mild terms begged my patience, then did ask of her her changeling child, Which straight she gave me, and her fairy sent To bear him to my bower in Fairyland.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 21)
And now have the boy, will undo This hateful imperfection of her eyes.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 22)
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp From off the head of this Athenian swain, That he, awaking when the other do, May all to Athens back again repair And think no more of this night's accidents But as the fierce vexation of a dream.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 23)
But first will release the Fairy Queen.  Be as thou wast wont to be.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 24)
See as thou wast wont to see. Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower Hath such force and blessed power.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 25)
Now, my Titania, wake you, my sweet queen.   My Oberon, what visions have seen!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 26)
Methought was enamored of an ass.   There lies your love.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 27)
How came these things to pass? how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 28)
Silence awhile.--Robin, take off this head.-- Titania, music call; and strike more dead Than common sleep of all these five the sense.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 29)
Music, ho, music such as charmeth sleep!   Now, when thou wak'st, with thine own fool's eyes peep.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 30)
Sound music. Come, my queen, take hands with me, And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 31)
Now thou and are new in amity, And will tomorrow midnight solemnly Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly, And bless it to all fair prosperity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 32)
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 33)
Fairy king, attend and mark. do hear the morning lark.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 34)
Then, my queen, in silence sad Trip we after night's shade.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 35)
We the globe can compass soon, Swifter than the wand'ring moon.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 36)
Come, my lord, and in our flight Tell me how it came this night That sleeping here was found With these mortals on the ground.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 37)
Go, one of you, find out the Forester. For now our observation is performed, And, since we have the vaward of the day, My love shall hear the music of my hounds.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 38)
Uncouple in the western valley; let them go. Dispatch, say, and find the Forester.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 39)
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top And mark the musical confusion Of hounds and echo in conjunction.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 40)
was with Hercules and Cadmus once, When in a wood of Crete they bayed the bear With hounds of Sparta.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 41)
Never did hear Such gallant chiding, for, besides the groves, The skies, the fountains, every region near Seemed all one mutual cry.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 42)
never heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 43)
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind, So flewed, so sanded; and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew; Crook-kneed, and dewlapped like Thessalian bulls; Slow in pursuit, but matched in mouth like bells, Each under each.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 44)
cry more tunable Was never holloed to, nor cheered with horn, In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 45)
Judge when you hear.--But soft! What nymphs are these?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 46)
My lord, this is my daughter here asleep, And this Lysander; this Demetrius is, This Helena, old Nedar's Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 47)
wonder of their being here together.   No doubt they rose up early to observe The rite of May, and hearing our intent, Came here in grace of our solemnity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 48)
But speak, Egeus. Is not this the day That Hermia should give answer of her choice?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 49)
It is, my lord.   Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 50)
Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 51)
Begin these woodbirds but to couple now?    Pardon, my lord.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 52)
pray you all, stand up.  know you two are rival enemies.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 53)
How comes this gentle concord in the world, That hatred is so far from jealousy To sleep by hate and fear no enmity?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 54)
My lord, shall reply amazedly, Half sleep, half waking.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 55)
But as yet, swear, cannot truly say how came here.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 56)
But, as think--for truly would speak, And now do bethink me, so it is: came with Hermia hither.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 57)
Our intent Was to be gone from Athens, where we might, Without the peril of the Athenian law--   Enough, enough!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 58)
--My lord, you have enough. beg the law, the law upon his head.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 59)
They would have stol'n away.--They would, Demetrius, Thereby to have defeated you and me: You of your wife and me of my consent, Of my consent that she should be your wife.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 60)
My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth, Of this their purpose hither to this wood, And in fury hither followed them, Fair Helena in fancy following me.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 61)
But, my good lord, wot not by what power (But by some power it is) my love to Hermia, Melted as the snow, seems to me now As the remembrance of an idle gaud Which in my childhood did dote upon, And all the faith, the virtue of my heart, The object and the pleasure of mine eye, Is only Helena.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 62)
To her, my lord, Was betrothed ere saw Hermia. But like a sickness did loathe this food.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 63)
But, as in health, come to my natural taste, Now do wish it, love it, long for it, And will forevermore be true to it.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 64)
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met. Of this discourse we more will hear anon.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 65)
-- Egeus, will overbear your will, For in the temple by and by, with us, These couples shall eternally be knit.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 66)
-- And, for the morning now is something worn, Our purposed hunting shall be set aside.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 67)
Away with us to Athens. Three and three, We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 68)
Come, Hippolyta.     These things seem small and undistinguishable, Like far-off mountains turned into clouds.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 69)
Methinks see these things with parted eye, When everything seems double.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 70)
So methinks. And have found Demetrius like a jewel, Mine own and not mine own.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 71)
Are you sure That we are awake? It seems to me That yet we sleep, we dream.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 72)
Do not you think The Duke was here and bid us follow him?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 73)
Yea, and my father.  And Hippolyta.   And he did bid us follow to the temple.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 74)
Why, then, we are awake. Let's follow him, And by the way let us recount our dreams.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 75)
When my cue comes, call me, and will answer. My next is "Most fair Pyramus.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 76)
" Hey-ho! Peter Quince! Flute the bellows-mender! Snout the tinker!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 77)
Starveling! God's my life! Stolen hence and left me asleep!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 78)
have had a most rare vision. have had a dream past the wit of man to say what dream it was.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 79)
Man is but an ass if he go about to expound this dream.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 80)
Methought was--there is no man can tell what. Methought was and methought had--but man is but a patched fool if he will offer to say what methought had.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 81)
The eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report what my dream was.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 82)
will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 83)
It shall be called "Bottom's Dream" because it hath no bottom; and will sing it in the latter end of a play, before the Duke.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 84)
Peradventure, to make it the more gracious, shall sing it at her death.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 18, Scene 85)
4       Have you sent to Bottom's house? Is he come home yet?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 0)
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is transported.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 1)
If he come not, then the play is marred. It goes not forward, doth it?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 2)
It is not possible. You have not a man in all Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 3)
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraftman in Athens.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 4)
Yea, and the best person too, and he is a very paramour for a sweet voice.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 5)
You must say "paragon." "paramour" is (God bless us) a thing of naught.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 6)
Masters, the Duke is coming from the temple, and there is two or three lords and ladies more married.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 7)
If our sport had gone forward, we had all been made men.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 8)
sweet bully Bottom! Thus hath he lost sixpence a day during his life.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 9)
He could not have 'scaped sixpence a day. An the Duke had not given him sixpence a day for playing Pyramus, I'll be hanged.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 10)
He would have deserved it. Sixpence a day in Pyramus, or nothing!(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 11)
Where are these lads? Where are these hearts?(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 12)
Bottom! most courageous day! most happy hour!  Masters, am to discourse wonders.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 13)
But ask me not what; for, if tell you, am not true Athenian.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 14)
will tell you everything right as it fell out.  Let us hear, sweet Bottom.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 15)
Not a word of me. All that will tell you is that the Duke hath dined.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 16)
Get your apparel together, good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your pumps.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 17)
Meet presently at the palace. Every man look o'er his part.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 18)
For the short and the long is, our play is preferred.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 19)
In any case, let Thisbe have clean linen, and let not him that plays the lion pare his nails, for they shall hang out for the lion's claws.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 20)
And, most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath, and do not doubt but to hear them say it is a sweet comedy.(A Midsummer Night's Dream, Act 19, Scene 21)
white, and three or four followers accordingly, with     Mislike me not for my complexion, The shadowed livery of the burnished sun, To whom am a neighbor and near bred.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 0)
Bring me the fairest creature northward born, Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles, And let us make incision for your love To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 1)
tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine Hath feared the valiant; by my love swear The best regarded virgins of our clime Have loved it too.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 2)
would not change this hue Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 3)
In terms of choice am not solely led By nice direction of a maiden's eyes; Besides, the lott'ry of my destiny Bars me the right of voluntary choosing.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 4)
But if my father had not scanted me And hedged me by his wit to yield myself His wife who wins me by that means told you, Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair As any comer have looked on yet For my affection.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 5)
Even for that thank you. Therefore pray you lead me to the caskets To try my fortune.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 6)
By this scimitar That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince, That won three fields of Sultan Solyman, would o'erstare the sternest eyes that look, Outbrave the heart most daring on the Earth, Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear, Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey, To win thee, lady.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 7)
But, alas the while! If Hercules and Lychas play at dice Which is the better man, the greater throw May turn by fortune from the weaker hand; So is Alcides beaten by his page, And so may blind Fortune leading me, Miss that which one unworthier may attain, And die with grieving.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 8)
You must take your chance And either not attempt to choose at all Or swear before you choose, if you choose wrong Never to speak to lady afterward In way of marriage.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 9)
Therefore be advised.   Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 10)
First, forward to the temple. After dinner Your hazard shall be made.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 11)
Good fortune then, To make me blest--or cursed'st among men!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 0, Scene 12)
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from this Jew my master.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 0)
The fiend is at mine elbow and tempts me, saying to me "Gobbo, Lancelet Gobbo, good Lancelet," or "good Gobbo," or "good Lancelet Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 1)
" My conscience says "No. Take heed, honest Lancelet, take heed, honest Gobbo," or, as aforesaid, "honest Lancelet Gobbo, do not run; scorn running with thy heels.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 2)
" Well, the most courageous fiend bids me pack. "Fia!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 3)
" says the fiend. "Away!" says the fiend. "For the heavens, rouse up a brave mind," says the fiend, "and run!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 4)
" Well, my conscience, hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely to me "My honest friend Lancelet, being an honest man's son"--or rather, an honest woman's son, for indeed my father did something smack, something grow to--he had a kind of taste--well, my conscience says "Lancelet, budge not.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 5)
" "Budge," says the fiend. "Budge not," says my conscience.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 6)
"Conscience," say "you counsel well." "Fiend," say "you counsel well.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 7)
" To be ruled by my conscience, should stay with the Jew my master, who (God bless the mark) is a kind of devil; and to run away from the Jew, should be ruled by the fiend, who (saving your reverence) is the devil himself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 8)
Certainly the Jew is the very devil incarnation, and, in my conscience, my conscience is but a kind of hard conscience to offer to counsel me to stay with the Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 9)
The fiend gives the more friendly counsel. will run, fiend.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 10)
My heels are at your commandment. will run.     Master young man, you, pray you, which is the way to Master Jew's?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 11)
heavens, this is my true begotten father, who being more than sandblind, high gravelblind, knows me not.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 12)
will try confusions with him.  Master young gentleman, pray you, which is the way to Master Jew's?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 13)
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but at the next turning of all on your left; marry, at the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn down indirectly to the Jew's house.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 14)
Be God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can you tell me whether one Lancelet, that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 15)
Talk you of young Master Lancelet? Mark me now, now will raise the waters.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 16)
--Talk you of young Master Lancelet?  No master, sir, but a poor man's son.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 17)
His father, though say 't, is an honest exceeding poor man and, God be thanked, well to live.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 18)
Well, let his father be what he will, we talk of young Master Lancelet.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 19)
Your Worship's friend, and Lancelet, sir.  But pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, beseech you, talk you of young Master Lancelet?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 20)
Of Lancelet, an 't please your mastership.  Ergo, Master Lancelet.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 21)
Talk not of Master Lancelet, father, for the young gentleman, according to Fates and Destinies, and such odd sayings, the Sisters Three, and such branches of learning, is indeed deceased, or, as you would say in plain terms, gone to heaven.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 22)
Marry, God forbid! The boy was the very staff of my age, my very prop.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 23)
Do look like a cudgel or a hovel-post, a staff or a prop?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 24)
--Do you know me, father?  Alack the day, know you not, young gentleman.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 25)
But pray you tell me, is my boy, God rest his soul, alive or dead?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 26)
Do you not know me, father?  Alack, sir, am sandblind.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 27)
know you not.  Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of the knowing me.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 28)
It is a wise father that knows his own child. Well, old man, will tell you news of your son.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 29)
Give me your blessing. Truth will come to light, murder cannot be hid long--a man's son may, but in the end, truth will out.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 30)
Pray you, sir, stand up! am sure you are not Lancelet my boy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 31)
Pray you, let's have no more fooling about it, but give me your blessing.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 32)
am Lancelet, your boy that was, your son that is, your child that shall be.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 33)
cannot think you are my son.  know not what shall think of that; but am Lancelet, the Jew's man, and am sure Margery your wife is my mother.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 34)
Her name is Margery, indeed. I'll be sworn if thou be Lancelet, thou art mine own flesh and blood.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 35)
Lord worshiped might He be, what a beard hast thou got!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 36)
Thou hast got more hair on thy chin than Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 37)
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows backward.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 38)
am sure he had more hair of his tail than have of my face when last saw him.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 39)
Lord, how art thou changed! How dost thou and thy master agree?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 40)
have brought him a present. How 'gree you now?  Well, well.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 41)
But for mine own part, as have set up my rest to run away, so will not rest till have run some ground.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 42)
My master's a very Jew. Give him a present! Give him a halter.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 43)
am famished in his service. You may tell every finger have with my ribs.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 44)
Father, am glad you are come! Give me your present to one Master Bassanio, who indeed gives rare new liveries.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 45)
If serve not him, will run as far as God has any ground.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 46)
rare fortune, here comes the man! To him, father, for am a Jew if serve the Jew any longer.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 47)
You may do so, but let it be so hasted that supper be ready at the farthest by five of the clock.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 48)
See these letters delivered, put the liveries to making, and desire Gratiano to come anon to my lodging.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 49)
To him, father.  God bless your Worship.  Gramercy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 50)
Wouldst thou aught with me?  Here's my son, sir, a poor boy--  Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man, that would, sir, as my father shall specify--  He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--  Indeed, the short and the long is, serve the Jew, and have a desire, as my father shall specify--  His master and he (saving your Worship's reverence) are scarce cater-cousins--  To be brief, the very truth is that the Jew, having done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father being, hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--  have here a dish of doves that would bestow upon your Worship, and my suit is--  In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as your Worship shall know by this honest old man, and though say it, though old man yet poor man, my father--  One speak for both.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 51)
What would you?  Serve you, sir.  That is the very defect of the matter, sir.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 52)
know thee well. Thou hast obtained thy suit. Shylock thy master spoke with me this day, And hath preferred thee, if it be preferment To leave a rich Jew's service, to become The follower of so poor a gentleman.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 53)
The old proverb is very well parted between my master Shylock and you, sir: you have "the grace of God," sir, and he hath "enough.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 54)
"   Thou speak'st it well.--Go, father, with thy son.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 55)
-- Take leave of thy old master, and inquire My lodging out.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 56)
Give him a livery More guarded than his fellows'.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 57)
See it done.   Father, in. cannot get a service, no!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 58)
have ne'er a tongue in my head! Well, if any man in Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear upon a book--I shall have good fortune, go to!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 59)
Here's a simple line of life. Here's a small trifle of wives--alas, fifteen wives is nothing; eleven widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one man--and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be in peril of my life with the edge of a featherbed!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 60)
Here are simple 'scapes. Well, if Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 61)
Father, come. I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 62)
pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this.  These things being bought and orderly bestowed, Return in haste, for do feast tonight My best esteemed acquaintance.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 63)
Hie thee, go.   My best endeavors shall be done herein.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 64)
Where's your master?  Yonder, sir, he walks.  Signior Bassanio!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 65)
Gratiano!  have suit to you.  You have obtained it.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 66)
You must not deny me. must go with you to Belmont.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 67)
Why then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano, Thou art too wild, too rude and bold of voice-- Parts that become thee happily enough, And in such eyes as ours appear not faults.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 68)
But where thou art not known--why, there they show Something too liberal.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 69)
Pray thee take pain To allay with some cold drops of modesty Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior be misconstered in the place go to, And lose my hopes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 70)
Signior Bassanio, hear me. If do not put on a sober habit, Talk with respect, and swear but now and then, Wear prayer books in my pocket, look demurely, Nay more, while grace is saying, hood mine eyes Thus with my hat, and sigh and say "amen," Use all the observance of civility Like one well studied in a sad ostent To please his grandam, never trust me more.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 71)
Well, we shall see your bearing.   Nay, but bar tonight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 72)
You shall not gauge me By what we do tonight.  No, that were pity.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 73)
would entreat you rather to put on Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends That purpose merriment.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 74)
But fare you well. have some business.   And must to Lorenzo and the rest.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 1, Scene 75)
2        am sorry thou wilt leave my father so. Our house is hell and thou, a merry devil, Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 0)
But fare thee well. There is a ducat for thee, And, Lancelet, soon at supper shalt thou see Lorenzo, who is thy new master's guest.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 1)
Give him this letter, do it secretly, And so farewell.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 2)
would not have my father See me in talk with thee.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 3)
Adieu. Tears exhibit my tongue, most beautiful pagan, most sweet Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 4)
If a Christian do not play the knave and get thee, am much deceived.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 5)
But adieu. These foolish drops do something drown my manly spirit.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 6)
Adieu.  Farewell, good Lancelet.  Alack, what heinous sin is it in me To be ashamed to be my father's child?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 7)
But though am a daughter to his blood, am not to his manners.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 8)
Lorenzo, If thou keep promise, shall end this strife, Become a Christian and thy loving wife.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 2, Scene 9)
Nay, we will slink away in supper time, Disguise us at my lodging, and return All in an hour.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 0)
We have not made good preparation.   We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 1)
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly ordered, And better in my mind not undertook.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 2)
'Tis now but four o'clock. We have two hours To furnish us.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 3)
Friend Lancelet, what's the news?  An it shall please you to break up this, it shall seem to signify.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 4)
know the hand; in faith, 'tis a fair hand, And whiter than the paper it writ on Is the fair hand that writ.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 5)
Love news, in faith!  By your leave, sir.  Whither goest thou?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 6)
Marry, sir, to bid my old master the Jew to sup tonight with my new master the Christian.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 7)
Hold here, take this.  Tell gentle Jessica will not fail her.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 8)
Speak it privately.  Go, gentlemen, Will you prepare you for this masque tonight?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 9)
am provided of a torchbearer.   Ay, marry, I'll be gone about it straight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 10)
And so will  Meet me and Gratiano At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 11)
'Tis good we do so.    Was not that letter from fair Jessica?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 12)
must needs tell thee all. She hath directed How shall take her from her father's house, What gold and jewels she is furnished with, What page's suit she hath in readiness.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 13)
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven, It will be for his gentle daughter's sake; And never dare misfortune cross her foot Unless she do it under this excuse, That she is issue to a faithless Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 14)
Come, go with me. Peruse this as thou goest;  Fair Jessica shall be my torchbearer.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 3, Scene 15)
Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge, The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 0)
-- What, Jessica!--Thou shalt not gormandize As thou hast done with me--what, Jessica!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 1)
-- And sleep, and snore, and rend apparel out.-- Why, Jessica, say!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 2)
Why, Jessica!   Who bids thee call? do not bid thee call.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 3)
Your Worship was wont to tell me could do nothing without bidding.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 4)
Call you? What is your will?   am bid forth to supper, Jessica.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 5)
There are my keys.--But wherefore should go? am not bid for love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 6)
They flatter me. But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon The prodigal Christian.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 7)
--Jessica, my girl, Look to my house.--I am right loath to go.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 8)
There is some ill a-brewing towards my rest, For did dream of money bags tonight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 9)
beseech you, sir, go. My young master doth expect your reproach.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 10)
So do his.  And they have conspired together--I will not say you shall see a masque, but if you do, then it was not for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on Black Monday last, at six o'clock i' th' morning, falling out that year on Ash Wednesday was four year in th' afternoon.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 11)
What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica, Lock up my doors, and when you hear the drum And the vile squealing of the wry-necked fife, Clamber not you up to the casements then, Nor thrust your head into the public street To gaze on Christian fools with varnished faces, But stop my house's ears mean my casements).(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 12)
Let not the sound of shallow fopp'ry enter My sober house.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 13)
By Jacob's staff swear have no mind of feasting forth tonight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 14)
But will go.--Go you before me, sirrah. Say will come.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 15)
will go before, sir.  Mistress, look out at window for all this.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 16)
There will come a Christian by Will be worth a Jewess' eye.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 17)
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?   His words were "Farewell, mistress," nothing else.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 18)
The patch is kind enough, but a huge feeder, Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day More than the wildcat.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 19)
Drones hive not with me, Therefore part with him, and part with him To one that would have him help to waste His borrowed purse.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 20)
Well, Jessica, go in. Perhaps will return immediately.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 21)
Do as bid you. Shut doors after you. Fast bind, fast find-- proverb never stale in thrifty mind.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 22)
Farewell, and if my fortune be not crossed, have a father, you a daughter, lost.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene 23)
This is the penthouse under which Lorenzo Desired us to make stand.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 0)
His hour is almost past.   And it is marvel he outdwells his hour, For lovers ever run before the clock.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 1)
ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly To seal love's bonds new-made than they are wont To keep obliged faith unforfeited.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 2)
That ever holds. Who riseth from a feast With that keen appetite that he sits down?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 3)
Where is the horse that doth untread again His tedious measures with the unbated fire That he did pace them first?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 4)
All things that are, Are with more spirit chased than enjoyed.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 5)
How like a younger or a prodigal The scarfed bark puts from her native bay, Hugged and embraced by the strumpet wind; How like the prodigal doth she return With overweathered ribs and ragged sails, Lean, rent, and beggared by the strumpet wind!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 6)
Here comes Lorenzo. More of this hereafter.   Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 7)
Not but my affairs have made you wait. When you shall please to play the thieves for wives, I'll watch as long for you then.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 8)
Approach. Here dwells my father Jew.--Ho! Who's within?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 9)
Who are you? Tell me for more certainty, Albeit I'll swear that do know your tongue.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 10)
Lorenzo, and thy love.   Lorenzo certain, and my love indeed, For who love so much?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 11)
And now who knows But you, Lorenzo, whether am yours?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 12)
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 13)
Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 14)
am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me, For am much ashamed of my exchange.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 15)
But love is blind, and lovers cannot see The pretty follies that themselves commit, For if they could, Cupid himself would blush To see me thus transformed to a boy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 16)
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.   What, must hold a candle to my shames?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 17)
They in themselves, good sooth, are too too light.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 18)
Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love, And should be obscured.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 19)
So are you, sweet, Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 20)
But come at once, For the close night doth play the runaway, And we are stayed for at Bassanio's feast.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 21)
will make fast the doors and gild myself With some more ducats, and be with you straight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 22)
Now, by my hood, a gentle and no Jew!   Beshrew me but love her heartily, For she is wise, if can judge of her, And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true, And true she is, as she hath proved herself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 23)
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair, and true, Shall she be placed in my constant soul.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 24)
What, art thou come? On, gentleman, away! Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 25)
Who's there?  Signior Antonio?   Fie, fie, Gratiano, where are all the rest?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 26)
'Tis nine o'clock! Our friends all stay for you. No masque tonight; the wind is come about; Bassanio presently will go aboard.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 27)
have sent twenty out to seek for you.   am glad on 't.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 28)
desire no more delight Than to be under sail and gone tonight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 5, Scene 29)
Go, draw aside the curtains and discover The several caskets to this noble prince.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 0)
Now make your choice.   This first, of gold, who this inscription bears, "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire"; The second, silver, which this promise carries, "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves"; This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt, "Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 1)
" How shall know if do choose the right?   The one of them contains my picture, prince.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 2)
If you choose that, then am yours withal.   Some god direct my judgment!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 3)
Let me see. will survey th' inscriptions back again.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 4)
What says this leaden casket? "Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 5)
" Must give--for what? For lead? Hazard for lead? This casket threatens.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 6)
Men that hazard all Do it in hope of fair advantages.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 7)
golden mind stoops not to shows of dross. I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 8)
What says the silver with her virgin hue? "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 9)
" As much as he deserves--pause there, Morocco, And weigh thy value with an even hand.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 10)
If thou beest rated by thy estimation, Thou dost deserve enough; and yet enough May not extend so far as to the lady.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 11)
And yet to be afeard of my deserving Were but a weak disabling of myself.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 12)
As much as deserve--why, that's the lady! do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes, In graces, and in qualities of breeding, But more than these, in love do deserve.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 13)
What if strayed no farther, but chose here? Let's see once more this saying graved in gold: "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 14)
" Why, that's the lady! All the world desires her.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 15)
From the four corners of the Earth they come To kiss this shrine, this mortal, breathing saint.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 16)
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds Of wide Arabia are as throughfares now For princes to come view fair Portia.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 17)
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head Spets in the face of heaven, is no bar To stop the foreign spirits, but they come As o'er a brook to see fair Portia.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 18)
One of these three contains her heavenly picture.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 19)
Is 't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation To think so base a thought.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 20)
It were too gross To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 21)
Or shall think in silver she's immured, Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 22)
sinful thought! Never so rich a gem Was set in worse than gold.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 23)
They have in England coin that bears the figure of an angel Stamped in gold, but that's insculped upon; But here an angel in a golden bed Lies all within.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 24)
--Deliver me the key. Here do choose, and thrive as may.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 25)
There, take it, prince.  And if my form lie there, Then am yours.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 26)
hell! What have we here? carrion death within whose empty eye There is a written scroll.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 27)
I'll read the writing: All that glisters is not gold-- Often have you heard that told.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 28)
Many a man his life hath sold But my outside to behold.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 29)
Gilded tombs do worms infold. Had you been as wise as bold, Young in limbs, in judgment old, Your answer had not been enscrolled.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 30)
Fare you well, your suit is cold. Cold indeed and labor lost!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 31)
Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost. Portia, adieu.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 32)
have too grieved a heart To take a tedious leave.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 33)
Thus losers part.    gentle riddance! Draw the curtains, go.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 6, Scene 34)
Why, man, saw Bassanio under sail; With him is Gratiano gone along; And in their ship am sure Lorenzo is not.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 0)
The villain Jew with outcries raised the Duke, Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 1)
He came too late; the ship was under sail. But there the Duke was given to understand That in a gondola were seen together Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 2)
Besides, Antonio certified the Duke They were not with Bassanio in his ship.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 3)
never heard a passion so confused, So strange, outrageous, and so variable As the dog Jew did utter in the streets.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 4)
"My daughter, my ducats, my daughter! Fled with a Christian!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 5)
my Christian ducats! Justice, the law, my ducats, and my daughter, sealed bag, two sealed bags of ducats, Of double ducats, stol'n from me by my daughter, And jewels--two stones, two rich and precious stones-- Stol'n by my daughter!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 6)
Justice! Find the girl! She hath the stones upon her, and the ducats.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 7)
"   Why, all the boys in Venice follow him, Crying "His stones, his daughter, and his ducats.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 8)
"   Let good Antonio look he keep his day, Or he shall pay for this.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 9)
Marry, well remembered. reasoned with a Frenchman yesterday Who told me, in the Narrow Seas that part The French and English, there miscarried vessel of our country richly fraught.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 10)
thought upon Antonio when he told me, And wished in silence that it were not his.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 11)
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear-- Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 12)
kinder gentleman treads not the Earth. saw Bassanio and Antonio part.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 13)
Bassanio told him he would make some speed Of his return.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 14)
He answered "Do not so. Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio, But stay the very riping of the time; And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me, Let it not enter in your mind of love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 15)
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts To courtship and such fair ostents of love As shall conveniently become you there.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 16)
" And even there, his eye being big with tears, Turning his face, he put his hand behind him, And with affection wondrous sensible He wrung Bassanio's hand--and so they parted.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 17)
think he only loves the world for him. pray thee, let us go and find him out And quicken his embraced heaviness With some delight or other.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 7, Scene 18)
Quick, quick, pray thee, draw the curtain straight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 0)
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath And comes to his election presently.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 1)
Behold, there stand the caskets, noble prince.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 2)
If you choose that wherein am contained, Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 3)
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord, You must be gone from hence immediately.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 4)
am enjoined by oath to observe three things: First, never to unfold to anyone Which casket 'twas chose; next, if fail Of the right casket, never in my life To woo a maid in way of marriage; Lastly, if do fail in fortune of my choice, Immediately to leave you, and be gone.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 5)
To these injunctions everyone doth swear That comes to hazard for my worthless self.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 6)
And so have addressed me. Fortune now To my heart's hope!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 7)
Gold, silver, and base lead. "Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 8)
" You shall look fairer ere give or hazard. What says the golden chest?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 9)
Ha, let me see: "Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 10)
" What many men desire--that "many" may be meant By the fool multitude that choose by show, Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach, Which pries not to th' interior, but like the martlet Builds in the weather on the outward wall, Even in the force and road of casualty.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 11)
will not choose what many men desire, Because will not jump with common spirits And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 12)
Why, then, to thee, thou silver treasure house. Tell me once more what title thou dost bear.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 13)
"Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 14)
" And well said, too; for who shall go about To cozen fortune and be honorable Without the stamp of merit?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 15)
Let none presume To wear an undeserved dignity. that estates, degrees, and offices Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honor Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 16)
How many then should cover that stand bare? How many be commanded that command?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 17)
How much low peasantry would then be gleaned From the true seed of honor?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 18)
And how much honor Picked from the chaff and ruin of the times, To be new varnished?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 19)
Well, but to my choice. "Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 20)
" will assume desert. Give me a key for this,  And instantly unlock my fortunes here.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 21)
Too long a pause for that which you find there.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 22)
What's here? The portrait of a blinking idiot Presenting me a schedule!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 23)
will read it.-- How much unlike art thou to Portia!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 24)
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings. "Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves"?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 25)
Did deserve no more than a fool's head? Is that my prize?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 26)
Are my deserts no better?   To offend and judge are distinct offices And of opposed natures.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 27)
What is here?   The fire seven times tried this; Seven times tried that judgment is That did never choose amiss.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 28)
Some there be that shadows kiss; Such have but a shadow's bliss.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 29)
There be fools alive, iwis, Silvered o'er--and so was this.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 30)
Take what wife you will to bed, will ever be your head.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 31)
So begone; you are sped. Still more fool shall appear By the time linger here.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 32)
With one fool's head came to woo, But go away with two.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 33)
Sweet, adieu. I'll keep my oath, Patiently to bear my wroth.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 34)
Thus hath the candle singed the moth. these deliberate fools, when they do choose, They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 35)
The ancient saying is no heresy: Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 36)
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.      Where is my lady?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 37)
Here. What would my lord?   Madam, there is alighted at your gate young Venetian, one that comes before To signify th' approaching of his lord, From whom he bringeth sensible regreets; To wit (besides commends and courteous breath), Gifts of rich value; yet have not seen So likely an ambassador of love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 38)
day in April never came so sweet, To show how costly summer was at hand, As this fore-spurrer comes before his lord.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 39)
No more, pray thee. am half afeard Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee, Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 40)
Come, come, Nerissa, for long to see Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 8, Scene 41)
Now, what news on the Rialto?  Why, yet it lives there unchecked that Antonio hath a ship of rich lading wracked on the Narrow Seas--the Goodwins, think they call the place--a very dangerous flat, and fatal, where the carcasses of many a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip Report be an honest woman of her word.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 0)
would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever knapped ginger or made her neighbors believe she wept for the death of a third husband.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 1)
But it is true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the honest Antonio--O, that had a title good enough to keep his name company!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 2)
--  Come, the full stop.  Ha, what sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath lost a ship.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 3)
would it might prove the end of his losses.  Let me say "amen" betimes, lest the devil cross my prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 4)
How now, Shylock, what news among the merchants?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 5)
You knew, none so well, none so well as you, of my daughter's flight.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 6)
That's certain. for my part knew the tailor that made the wings she flew withal.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 7)
And Shylock for his own part knew the bird was fledge, and then it is the complexion of them all to leave the dam.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 8)
She is damned for it.  That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 9)
My own flesh and blood to rebel!  Out upon it, old carrion!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 10)
Rebels it at these years?  say my daughter is my flesh and my blood.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 11)
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers than between jet and ivory, more between your bloods than there is between red wine and Rhenish.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 12)
But tell us, do you hear whether Antonio have had any loss at sea or no?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 13)
There have another bad match! bankrout, a prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the Rialto, a beggar that was used to come so smug upon the mart!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 14)
Let him look to his bond. He was wont to call me usurer; let him look to his bond.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 15)
He was wont to lend money for a Christian cur'sy; let him look to his bond.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 16)
Why, am sure if he forfeit, thou wilt not take his flesh!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 17)
What's that good for?  To bait fish withal; if it will feed nothing else, it will feed my revenge.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 18)
He hath disgraced me and hindered me half a million, laughed at my losses, mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine enemies-- and what's his reason?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 19)
am a Jew. Hath not a Jew eyes? Hath not a Jew hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 20)
Fed with the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject to the same diseases, healed by the same means, warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer as a Christian is?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 21)
If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 22)
If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 23)
If we are like you in the rest, we will resemble you in that.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 24)
If a Jew wrong a Christian, what is his humility?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 25)
Revenge. If a Christian wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by Christian example?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 26)
Why, revenge! The villainy you teach me will execute, and it shall go hard but will better the instruction.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 27)
Gentlemen, my master Antonio is at his house and desires to speak with you both.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 28)
We have been up and down to seek him.     Here comes another of the tribe; a third cannot be matched unless the devil himself turn Jew.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 29)
How now, Tubal, what news from Genoa? Hast thou found my daughter?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 30)
often came where did hear of her, but cannot find her.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 31)
Why, there, there, there, there! diamond gone cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfurt!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 32)
The curse never fell upon our nation till now, never felt it till now.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 33)
Two thousand ducats in that, and other precious, precious jewels!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 34)
would my daughter were dead at my foot and the jewels in her ear; would she were hearsed at my foot and the ducats in her coffin.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 35)
No news of them? Why so? And know not what's spent in the search!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 36)
Why, thou loss upon loss! The thief gone with so much, and so much to find the thief, and no satisfaction, no revenge, nor no ill luck stirring but what lights a' my shoulders, no sighs but a' my breathing, no tears but a' my shedding.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 37)
Yes, other men have ill luck, too. Antonio, as heard in Genoa--  What, what, what?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 38)
Ill luck, ill luck?  --hath an argosy cast away coming from Tripolis.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 39)
thank God, thank God! Is it true, is it true?  spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wrack.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 40)
thank thee, good Tubal. Good news, good news! Ha, ha, heard in Genoa--  Your daughter spent in Genoa, as heard, one night fourscore ducats.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 41)
Thou stick'st a dagger in me. shall never see my gold again.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 42)
Fourscore ducats at a sitting, fourscore ducats!  There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my company to Venice that swear he cannot choose but break.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 43)
am very glad of it. I'll plague him, I'll torture him.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 44)
am glad of it.  One of them showed me a ring that he had of your daughter for a monkey.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 45)
Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal. It was my turquoise!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 46)
had it of Leah when was a bachelor. would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 47)
But Antonio is certainly undone.  Nay, that's true, that's very true.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 48)
Go, Tubal, fee me an officer. Bespeak him a fortnight before.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 49)
will have the heart of him if he forfeit, for were he out of Venice can make what merchandise will.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 50)
Go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue. Go, good Tubal, at our synagogue, Tubal.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 20, Scene 51)
pray you tarry, pause a day or two Before you hazard, for in choosing wrong lose your company; therefore forbear a while.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 0)
There's something tells me (but it is not love) would not lose you, and you know yourself Hate counsels not in such a quality.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 1)
But lest you should not understand me well (And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought) would detain you here some month or two Before you venture for me.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 2)
could teach you How to choose right, but then am forsworn.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 3)
So will never be. So may you miss me. But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin, That had been forsworn.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 4)
Beshrew your eyes, They have o'erlooked me and divided me.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 5)
One half of me is yours, the other half yours-- Mine own, would say--but if mine, then yours, And so all yours.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 6)
these naughty times Puts bars between the owners and their rights!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 7)
And so though yours, not yours. Prove it so, Let Fortune go to hell for it, not speak too long, but 'tis to peize the time, To eche it, and to draw it out in length, To stay you from election.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 8)
Let me choose, For as am, live upon the rack.   Upon the rack, Bassanio?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 9)
Then confess What treason there is mingled with your love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 10)
None but that ugly treason of mistrust, Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 11)
There may as well be amity and life 'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 12)
Ay, but fear you speak upon the rack Where men enforced do speak anything.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 13)
Promise me life and I'll confess the truth.   Well, then, confess and live.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 14)
"Confess and love" Had been the very sum of my confession.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 15)
happy torment, when my torturer Doth teach me answers for deliverance!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 16)
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.   Away, then.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 17)
am locked in one of them. If you do love me, you will find me out.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 18)
-- Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof. Let music sound while he doth make his choice.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 19)
Then if he lose he makes a swanlike end, Fading in music.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 20)
That the comparison May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream And wat'ry deathbed for him.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 21)
He may win, And what is music then? Then music is Even as the flourish when true subjects bow To a new-crowned monarch.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 22)
Such it is As are those dulcet sounds in break of day That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear And summon him to marriage.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 23)
Now he goes, With no less presence but with much more love Than young Alcides when he did redeem The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy To the sea-monster.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 24)
stand for sacrifice; The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issue of th' exploit.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 25)
Go, Hercules! Live thou, live. With much much more dismay view the fight than thou that mak'st the fray.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 26)
song the whilst Bassanio comments on     Tell me where is fancy bred, Or in the heart, or in the head?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 27)
How begot, how nourished? Reply, reply. It is engendered in the eye, With gazing fed, and fancy dies In the cradle where it lies.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 28)
Let us all ring fancy's knell. I'll begin it.--Ding, dong, bell.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 29)
Ding, dong, bell.   So may the outward shows be least themselves; The world is still deceived with ornament.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 30)
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being seasoned with a gracious voice, Obscures the show of evil?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 31)
In religion, What damned error but some sober brow Will bless it and approve it with a text, Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 32)
There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his outward parts.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 33)
How many cowards whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars, Who inward searched have livers white as milk, And these assume but valor's excrement To render them redoubted.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 34)
Look on beauty, And you shall see 'tis purchased by the weight, Which therein works a miracle in nature, Making them lightest that wear most of it.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 35)
So are those crisped snaky golden locks, Which maketh such wanton gambols with the wind Upon supposed fairness, often known To be the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them in the sepulcher.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 36)
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea, the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, The seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 37)
Therefore, then, thou gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, will none of thee.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 38)
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge 'Tween man and man.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 39)
But thou, thou meager lead, Which rather threaten'st than dost promise aught, Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence, And here choose Joy be the consequence!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 40)
How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts and rash embraced despair, And shudd'ring fear, and green-eyed jealousy!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 41)
love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy, In measure rain thy joy, scant this excess!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 42)
feel too much thy blessing. Make it less, For fear surfeit.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 43)
What find here? Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demigod Hath come so near creation?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 44)
Move these eyes? Or whether, riding on the balls of mine, Seem they in motion?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 45)
Here are severed lips Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar Should sunder such sweet friends.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 46)
Here in her hairs The painter plays the spider, and hath woven golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats in cobwebs.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 47)
But her eyes! How could he see to do them? Having made one, Methinks it should have power to steal both his And leave itself unfurnished.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 48)
Yet look how far The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it, so far this shadow Doth limp behind the substance.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 49)
Here's the scroll, The continent and summary of my fortune.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 50)
You that choose not by the view Chance as fair and choose as true.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 51)
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 52)
If you be well pleased with this And hold your fortune for your bliss, Turn you where your lady is, And claim her with a loving kiss.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 53)
gentle scroll! Fair lady, by your leave, come by note to give and to receive.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 54)
Like one of two contending in a prize That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal shout, Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals of praise be his or no, So, thrice-fair lady, stand even so, As doubtful whether what see be true, Until confirmed, signed, ratified by you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 55)
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where stand, Such as am.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 56)
Though for myself alone would not be ambitious in my wish To wish myself much better, yet for you would be trebled twenty times myself, thousand times more fair, ten thousand times More rich, that only to stand high in your account might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed account.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 57)
But the full sum of me Is sum of something, which, to term in gross, Is an unlessoned girl, unschooled, unpracticed; Happy in this, she is not yet so old But she may learn; happier than this, She is not bred so dull but she can learn; Happiest of all, is that her gentle spirit Commits itself to yours to be directed As from her lord, her governor, her king.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 58)
Myself, and what is mine, to you and yours Is now converted.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 59)
But now was the lord Of this fair mansion, master of my servants, Queen o'er myself; and even now, but now, This house, these servants, and this same myself Are yours, my lord's.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 60)
give them with this ring,  Which, when you part from, lose, or give away, Let it presage the ruin of your love, And be my vantage to exclaim on you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 61)
Madam, you have bereft me of all words. Only my blood speaks to you in my veins, And there is such confusion in my powers As after some oration fairly spoke By a beloved prince there doth appear Among the buzzing pleased multitude, Where every something being blent together Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy Expressed and not expressed.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 62)
But when this ring Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 63)
then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!   My lord and lady, it is now our time, That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper, To cry "Good joy, good joy, my lord and lady!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 64)
"   My Lord Bassanio, and my gentle lady, wish you all the joy that you can wish, For am sure you can wish none from me.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 65)
And when your honors mean to solemnize The bargain of your faith, do beseech you Even at that time may be married too.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 66)
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.   thank your Lordship, you have got me one.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 67)
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours: You saw the mistress, beheld the maid.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 68)
You loved, loved; for intermission No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 69)
Your fortune stood upon the caskets there, And so did mine, too, as the matter falls.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 70)
For wooing here until sweat again, And swearing till my very roof was dry With oaths of love, at last (if promise last) got a promise of this fair one here To have her love, provided that your fortune Achieved her mistress.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 71)
Is this true, Nerissa?   Madam, it is, so you stand pleased withal.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 72)
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?  Yes, faith, my lord.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 73)
Our feast shall be much honored in your marriage.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 74)
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 75)
What, and stake down?  No, we shall ne'er win at that sport and stake down.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 76)
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel? What, and my old Venetian friend Salerio?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 77)
Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither-- If that the youth of my new int'rest here Have power to bid you welcome.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 78)
By your leave, bid my very friends and countrymen, Sweet Portia, welcome.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 79)
So do my lord. They are entirely welcome.   thank your Honor.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 80)
For my part, my lord, My purpose was not to have seen you here, But meeting with Salerio by the way, He did entreat me past all saying nay To come with him along.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 81)
did, my lord, And have reason for it. Signior Antonio Commends him to you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 82)
Ere ope his letter, pray you tell me how my good friend doth.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 83)
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind, Nor well, unless in mind.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 84)
His letter there Will show you his estate.    Nerissa, cheer yond stranger, bid her welcome.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 85)
-- Your hand, Salerio. What's the news from Venice?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 86)
How doth that royal merchant, good Antonio? know he will be glad of our success.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 87)
We are the Jasons, we have won the Fleece.   would you had won the fleece that he hath lost.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 88)
There are some shrewd contents in yond same paper That steals the color from Bassanio's cheek.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 89)
Some dear friend dead, else nothing in the world Could turn so much the constitution Of any constant man.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 90)
What, worse and worse?-- With leave, Bassanio, am half yourself, And must freely have the half of anything That this same paper brings you.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 91)
sweet Portia, Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words That ever blotted paper.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 92)
Gentle lady, When did first impart my love to you, freely told you all the wealth had Ran in my veins: was a gentleman.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 93)
And then told you true; and yet, dear lady, Rating myself at nothing, you shall see How much was a braggart.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 94)
When told you My state was nothing, should then have told you That was worse than nothing; for indeed have engaged myself to a dear friend, Engaged my friend to his mere enemy To feed my means.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 95)
Here is a letter, lady, The paper as the body of my friend, And every word in it a gaping wound Issuing life blood.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 96)
--But is it true, Salerio? Hath all his ventures failed?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 97)
What, not one hit? From Tripolis, from Mexico and England, From Lisbon, Barbary, and India, And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch Of merchant-marring rocks?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 98)
Not one, my lord. Besides, it should appear that if he had The present money to discharge the Jew, He would not take it.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 99)
Never did know creature that did bear the shape of man So keen and greedy to confound a man.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 100)
He plies the Duke at morning and at night, And doth impeach the freedom of the state If they deny him justice.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 101)
Twenty merchants, The Duke himself, and the magnificoes Of greatest port have all persuaded with him, But none can drive him from the envious plea Of forfeiture, of justice, and his bond.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 102)
When was with him, have heard him swear To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen, That he would rather have Antonio's flesh Than twenty times the value of the sum That he did owe him.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 103)
And know, my lord, If law, authority, and power deny not, It will go hard with poor Antonio.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 104)
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 105)
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man, The best conditioned and unwearied spirit In doing courtesies, and one in whom The ancient Roman honor more appears Than any that draws breath in Italy.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 106)
What sum owes he the Jew?   For me, three thousand ducats.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 107)
What, no more? Pay him six thousand and deface the bond.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 108)
Double six thousand and then treble that, Before a friend of this description Shall lose a hair through Bassanio's fault.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 109)
First go with me to church and call me wife, And then away to Venice to your friend!(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 110)
For never shall you lie by Portia's side With an unquiet soul.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 111)
You shall have gold To pay the petty debt twenty times over.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 112)
When it is paid, bring your true friend along. My maid Nerissa and myself meantime Will live as maids and widows.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 113)
Come, away, For you shall hence upon your wedding day.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 114)
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer; Since you are dear bought, will love you dear.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 115)
But let me hear the letter of your friend.   Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is very low, my bond to the Jew is forfeit, and since in paying it, it is impossible should live, all debts are cleared between you and if might but see you at my death.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 116)
Notwithstanding, use your pleasure. If your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 117)
love, dispatch all business and begone!   Since have your good leave to go away, will make haste.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 118)
But till come again, No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay, Nor rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.(The Merchant of Venice, Act 21, Scene 119)
What from the cape can you discern at sea?   Nothing at all.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 0)
It is a high-wrought flood. cannot 'twixt the heaven and the main Descry a sail.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 1)
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land. fuller blast ne'er shook our battlements.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 2)
If it hath ruffianed so upon the sea, What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them, Can hold the mortise?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 3)
What shall we hear of this?   segregation of the Turkish fleet.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 4)
For do but stand upon the foaming shore, The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds, The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane, Seems to cast water on the burning Bear And quench the guards of th' ever-fixed pole.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 5)
never did like molestation view On the enchafed flood.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 6)
If that the Turkish fleet Be not ensheltered and embayed, they are drowned.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 7)
It is impossible to bear it out.     News, lads! Our wars are done.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 8)
The desperate tempest hath so banged the Turks That their designment halts.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 9)
noble ship of Venice Hath seen a grievous wrack and sufferance On most part of their fleet.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 10)
How? Is this true?  The ship is here put in, Veronesa.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 11)
Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello, Is come on shore; the Moor himself at sea, And is in full commission here for Cyprus.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 12)
am glad on 't. 'Tis a worthy governor.   But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly And prays the Moor be safe, for they were parted With foul and violent tempest.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 13)
Pray heaven he be; For have served him, and the man commands Like a full soldier.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 14)
Let's to the seaside, ho! As well to see the vessel that's come in As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello, Even till we make the main and th' aerial blue An indistinct regard.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 15)
Come, let's do so; For every minute is expectancy Of more arrivance.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 16)
Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle, That so approve the Moor!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 17)
let the heavens Give him defense against the elements, For have lost him on a dangerous sea.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 18)
Is he well shipped?   His bark is stoutly timbered, and his pilot Of very expert and approved allowance; Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death, Stand in bold cure.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 19)
What noise?   The town is empty; on the brow o' th' sea Stand ranks of people, and they cry sail!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 20)
"   My hopes do shape him for the Governor.    They do discharge their shot of courtesy.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 21)
Our friends, at least.  pray you, sir, go forth, And give us truth who 'tis that is arrived.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 22)
shall.   But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 23)
Most fortunately. He hath achieved a maid That paragons description and wild fame, One that excels the quirks of blazoning pens, And in th' essential vesture of creation Does tire the ingener.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 24)
How now? Who has put in?   'Tis one Iago, ancient to the General.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 25)
'Has had most favorable and happy speed! Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds, The guttered rocks and congregated sands (Traitors ensteeped to clog the guiltless keel), As having sense of beauty, do omit Their mortal natures, letting go safely by The divine Desdemona.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 26)
What is she?   She that spake of, our great captain's captain, Left in the conduct of the bold Iago, Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts sennight's speed.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 27)
Great Jove, Othello guard, And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath, That he may bless this bay with his tall ship, Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms, Give renewed fire to our extincted spirits, And bring all Cyprus comfort!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 28)
behold, The riches of the ship is come on shore!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 29)
You men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.  Hail to thee, lady, and the grace of heaven, Before, behind thee, and on every hand Enwheel thee round.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 30)
thank you, valiant Cassio. What tidings can you tell of my lord?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 31)
He is not yet arrived, nor know aught But that he's well and will be shortly here.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 32)
but fear--How lost you company?   The great contention of sea and skies Parted our fellowship.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 33)
But hark, a sail!   They give their greeting to the citadel.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 34)
This likewise is a friend.  See for the news.  Good ancient, you are welcome.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 35)
Welcome, mistress.  Let it not gall your patience, good Iago, That extend my manners.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 36)
'Tis my breeding That gives me this bold show of courtesy.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 37)
Sir, would she give you so much of her lips As of her tongue she oft bestows on me, You would have enough.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 38)
Alas, she has no speech!  In faith, too much. find it still when have list to sleep.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 39)
Marry, before your Ladyship, grant, She puts her tongue a little in her heart And chides with thinking.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 40)
You have little cause to say so.  Come on, come on!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 41)
You are pictures out of door, bells in your parlors, wildcats in your kitchens, saints in your injuries, devils being offended, players in your huswifery, and huswives in your beds.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 42)
Oh, fie upon thee, slanderer.   Nay, it is true, or else am a Turk.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 43)
You rise to play, and go to bed to work.   You shall not write my praise.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 44)
No, let me not.   What wouldst write of me if thou shouldst praise me?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 45)
gentle lady, do not put me to 't, For am nothing if not critical.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 46)
Come on, assay.--There's one gone to the harbor?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 47)
Ay, madam.   am not merry, but do beguile The thing am by seeming otherwise.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 48)
-- Come, how wouldst thou praise me?  am about it, but indeed my invention comes from my pate as birdlime does from frieze: it plucks out brains and all.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 49)
But my muse labors, and thus she is delivered: If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit, The one's for use, the other useth it.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 50)
Well praised! How if she be black and witty?   If she be black, and thereto have a wit, She'll find a white that shall her blackness hit.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 51)
Worse and worse.  How if fair and foolish?   She never yet was foolish that was fair, For even her folly helped her to an heir.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 52)
These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i' th' alehouse.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 53)
What miserable praise hast thou for her that's foul and foolish?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 54)
There's none so foul and foolish thereunto, But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 55)
heavy ignorance! Thou praisest the worst best. But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving woman indeed, one that in the authority of her merit did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 56)
She that was ever fair and never proud, Had tongue at will and yet was never loud, Never lacked gold and yet went never gay, Fled from her wish, and yet said "Now may," She that being angered, her revenge being nigh, Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly, She that in wisdom never was so frail To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail, She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind, See suitors following and not look behind, She was a wight, if ever such wight were--  To do what?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 57)
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.  most lame and impotent conclusion!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 58)
--Do not learn of him, Emilia, though he be thy husband.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 59)
--How say you, Cassio? Is he not a most profane and liberal counselor?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 60)
He speaks home, madam. You may relish him more in the soldier than in the scholar.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 61)
He takes her by the palm. Ay, well said, whisper.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 62)
With as little a web as this will ensnare as great a fly as Cassio.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 63)
Ay, smile upon her, do. will gyve thee in thine own courtship.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 64)
You say true, 'tis so indeed. If such tricks as these strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had been better you had not kissed your three fingers so oft, which now again you are most apt to play the sir in.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 65)
Very good; well kissed; an excellent courtesy! 'Tis so, indeed.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 66)
Yet again your fingers to your lips? Would they were clyster pipes for your sake!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 67)
The Moor. know his trumpet.  'Tis truly so.  Let's meet him and receive him.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 68)
Lo, where he comes!      my fair warrior!  My dear Othello!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 69)
It gives me wonder great as my content To see you here before me.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 70)
my soul's joy! If after every tempest come such calms, May the winds blow till they have wakened death, And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus high, and duck again as low As hell's from heaven!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 71)
If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be most happy, for fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 72)
The heavens forbid But that our loves and comforts should increase Even as our days do grow!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 73)
Amen to that, sweet powers! cannot speak enough of this content.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 74)
It stops me here; it is too much of joy. And this, and this, the greatest discords be That e'er our hearts shall make!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 75)
you are well tuned now, But I'll set down the pegs that make this music, As honest as am.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 76)
Come. Let us to the castle.-- News, friends! Our wars are done.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 77)
The Turks are drowned. How does my old acquaintance of this isle?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 78)
-- Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus. have found great love amongst them.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 79)
my sweet, prattle out of fashion, and dote In mine own comforts.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 80)
--I prithee, good Iago, Go to the bay and disembark my coffers.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 81)
Bring thou the master to the citadel. He is a good one, and his worthiness Does challenge much respect.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 82)
--Come, Desdemona. Once more, well met at Cyprus.   Do thou meet me presently at the harbor.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 83)
Come hither. If thou be'st valiant--as they say base men being in love have then a nobility in their natures more than is native to them--list me.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 84)
The Lieutenant tonight watches on the court of guard.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 85)
First, must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 86)
With him? Why, 'tis not possible.  Lay thy finger thus, and let thy soul be instructed.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 87)
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 88)
And will she love him still for prating? Let not thy discreet heart think it.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 89)
Her eye must be fed. And what delight shall she have to look on the devil?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 90)
When the blood is made dull with the act of sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favor, sympathy in years, manners, and beauties, all which the Moor is defective in.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 91)
Now, for want of these required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will find itself abused, begin to heave the gorge, disrelish and abhor the Moor.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 92)
Very nature will instruct her in it and compel her to some second choice.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 93)
Now, sir, this granted--as it is a most pregnant and unforced position--who stands so eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio does?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 94)
knave very voluble, no further conscionable than in putting on the mere form of civil and humane seeming for the better compassing of his salt and most hidden loose affection.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 95)
Why, none, why, none! slipper and subtle knave, a finder-out of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never present itself; a devilish knave!(Othello, Act 0, Scene 96)
Besides, the knave is handsome, young, and hath all those requisites in him that folly and green minds look after.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 97)
pestilent complete knave, and the woman hath found him already.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 98)
cannot believe that in her. She's full of most blessed condition.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 99)
Blessed fig's end! The wine she drinks is made of grapes.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 100)
If she had been blessed, she would never have loved the Moor.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 101)
Blessed pudding! Didst thou not see her paddle with the palm of his hand?(Othello, Act 0, Scene 102)
Didst not mark that?  Yes, that did. But that was but courtesy.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 103)
Lechery, by this hand! An index and obscure prologue to the history of lust and foul thoughts.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 104)
They met so near with their lips that their breaths embraced together.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 105)
Villainous thoughts, Roderigo! When these mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes the master and main exercise, th' incorporate conclusion.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 106)
Pish! But, sir, be you ruled by me. have brought you from Venice.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 107)
Watch you tonight. For the command, I'll lay 't upon you.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 108)
Cassio knows you not. I'll not be far from you. Do you find some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking too loud, or tainting his discipline, or from what other course you please, which the time shall more favorably minister.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 109)
Well.  Sir, he's rash and very sudden in choler, and haply may strike at you.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 110)
Provoke him that he may, for even out of that will cause these of Cyprus to mutiny, whose qualification shall come into no true taste again but by the displanting of Cassio.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 111)
So shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by the means shall then have to prefer them, and the impediment most profitably removed, without the which there were no expectation of our prosperity.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 112)
will do this, if you can bring it to any opportunity.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 113)
warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel. must fetch his necessaries ashore.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 114)
Farewell.  Adieu.   That Cassio loves her, do well believe 't.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 115)
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 116)
The Moor, howbeit that endure him not, Is of a constant, loving, noble nature, And dare think he'll prove to Desdemona most dear husband.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 117)
Now, do love her too, Not out of absolute lust (though peradventure stand accountant for as great a sin) But partly led to diet my revenge For that do suspect the lusty Moor Hath leaped into my seat--the thought whereof Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards, And nothing can or shall content my soul Till am evened with him, wife for wife, Or, failing so, yet that put the Moor At least into a jealousy so strong That judgment cannot cure.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 118)
Which thing to do, If this poor trash of Venice, whom trace For his quick hunting, stand the putting on, I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip, Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb (For fear Cassio with my nightcap too), Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me For making him egregiously an ass And practicing upon his peace and quiet Even to madness.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 119)
'Tis here, but yet confused. Knavery's plain face is never seen till used.(Othello, Act 0, Scene 120)
It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant general, that upon certain tidings now arrived, importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet, every man put himself into triumph: some to dance, some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and revels his addition leads him.(Othello, Act 1, Scene 0)
For besides these beneficial news, it is the celebration of his nuptial.(Othello, Act 1, Scene 1)
So much was his pleasure should be proclaimed All offices are open, and there is full liberty of feasting from this present hour of five till the bell have told eleven.(Othello, Act 1, Scene 2)
Heaven bless the isle of Cyprus and our noble general, Othello!(Othello, Act 1, Scene 3)
2        Good Michael, look you to the guard tonight.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 0)
Let's teach ourselves that honorable stop Not to outsport discretion.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 1)
Iago hath direction what to do, But notwithstanding, with my personal eye Will look to 't.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 2)
Iago is most honest. Michael, goodnight. Tomorrow with your earliest Let me have speech with you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 3)
Come, my dear love, The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue; That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 4)
-- Goodnight.       Welcome, Iago. We must to the watch.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 5)
Not this hour, lieutenant. 'Tis not yet ten o' th' clock.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 6)
Our general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona--who let us not therefore blame; he hath not yet made wanton the night with her, and she is sport for Jove.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 7)
She's a most exquisite lady.  And, I'll warrant her, full of game.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 8)
Indeed, she's a most fresh and delicate creature.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 9)
What an eye she has! Methinks it sounds a parley to provocation.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 10)
An inviting eye, and yet methinks right modest.  And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 11)
She is indeed perfection.  Well, happiness to their sheets!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 12)
Come, lieutenant, have a stoup of wine; and here without are a brace of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to the health of black Othello.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 13)
Not tonight, good Iago. have very poor and unhappy brains for drinking.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 14)
could well wish courtesy would invent some other custom of entertainment.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 15)
they are our friends! But one cup; I'll drink for you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 16)
have drunk but one cup tonight, and that was craftily qualified too, and behold what innovation it makes here.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 17)
am unfortunate in the infirmity and dare not task my weakness with any more.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 18)
What, man! 'Tis a night of revels. The gallants desire it.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 19)
Where are they?  Here at the door. pray you, call them in.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 20)
I'll do 't, but it dislikes me.   If can fasten but one cup upon him With that which he hath drunk tonight already, He'll be as full of quarrel and offense As my young mistress' dog.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 21)
Now my sick fool Roderigo, Whom love hath turned almost the wrong side out, To Desdemona hath tonight caroused Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 22)
Three else of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits That hold their honors in a wary distance, The very elements of this warlike isle, Have tonight flustered with flowing cups; And they watch too.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 23)
Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards Am to put our Cassio in some action That may offend the isle.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 24)
But here they come. If consequence do but approve my dream, My boat sails freely both with wind and stream.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 25)
'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 26)
Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as am a soldier.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 27)
Some wine, ho! And let me the cannikin clink, clink, And let me the cannikin clink.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 28)
soldier's a man, man's life's but a span, Why, then, let a soldier drink.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 29)
Some wine, boys!  'Fore God, an excellent song.  learned it in England, where indeed they are most potent in potting.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 30)
Your Dane, your German, and your swag-bellied Hollander--drink, ho!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 31)
--are nothing to your English.  Is your Englishman so exquisite in his drinking?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 32)
Why, he drinks you, with facility, your Dane dead drunk.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 33)
He sweats not to overthrow your Almain. He gives your Hollander a vomit ere the next pottle can be filled.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 34)
To the health of our general!  am for it, lieutenant, and I'll do you justice.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 35)
sweet England! King Stephen was and-a worthy peer, His breeches cost him but a crown; He held them sixpence all too dear; With that he called the tailor lown.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 36)
He was a wight of high renown, And thou art but of low degree; 'Tis pride that pulls the country down, Then take thy auld cloak about thee.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 37)
Some wine, ho!  'Fore God, this is a more exquisite song than the other!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 38)
Will you hear 't again?  No, for hold him to be unworthy of his place that does those things.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 39)
Well, God's above all; and there be souls must be saved, and there be souls must not be saved.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 40)
It's true, good lieutenant.  For mine own part--no offense to the General, nor any man of quality--I hope to be saved.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 41)
And so do too, lieutenant.  Ay, but, by your leave, not before me.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 42)
The Lieutenant is to be saved before the Ancient.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 43)
Let's have no more of this. Let's to our affairs.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 44)
God forgive us our sins! Gentlemen, let's look to our business.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 45)
Do not think, gentlemen, am drunk. This is my ancient, this is my right hand, and this is my left.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 46)
am not drunk now. can stand well enough, and speak well enough.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 47)
Excellent well.  Why, very well then. You must not think then that am drunk.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 48)
To th' platform, masters. Come, let's set the watch.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 49)
You see this fellow that is gone before? He's a soldier fit to stand by Caesar And give direction; and do but see his vice.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 50)
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox, The one as long as th' other.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 51)
'Tis pity of him. fear the trust Othello puts him in, On some odd time of his infirmity, Will shake this island.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 52)
But is he often thus?   'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 53)
He'll watch the horologe a double set If drink rock not his cradle.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 54)
It were well The General were put in mind of it.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 55)
Perhaps he sees it not, or his good nature Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio And looks not on his evils.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 56)
Is not this true?     How now, Roderigo? pray you, after the Lieutenant, go.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 57)
And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor Should hazard such a place as his own second With one of an engraffed infirmity.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 58)
It were an honest action to say so To the Moor.  Not for this fair island.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 59)
do love Cassio well and would do much To cure him of this evil-- But hark!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 60)
What noise?     Zounds, you rogue, you rascal!  What's the matter, lieutenant?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 61)
knave teach me my duty? I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 62)
Beat me?  Dost thou prate, rogue?  Nay, good lieutenant.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 63)
pray you, sir, hold your hand.  Let me go, sir, or I'll knock you o'er the mazard.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 64)
Come, come, you're drunk.  Drunk?    Away, say! Go out and cry a mutiny.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 65)
Nay, good lieutenant.--God's will, gentlemen!-- Help, ho!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 66)
Lieutenant--sir--Montano--sir-- Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 67)
Who's that which rings the bell? Diablo, ho! The town will rise.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 68)
God's will, lieutenant, hold! You will be shamed forever.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 69)
What is the matter here?  Zounds, bleed still.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 70)
am hurt to th' death. He dies!  Hold, for your lives!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 71)
Hold, ho! Lieutenant--sir--Montano-- gentlemen-- Have you forgot all sense of place and duty?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 72)
Hold! The General speaks to you. Hold, for shame!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 73)
Why, how now, ho! From whence ariseth this? Are we turned Turks, and to ourselves do that Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 74)
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 75)
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 76)
Silence that dreadful bell. It frights the isle From her propriety.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 77)
What is the matter, masters? Honest Iago, that looks dead with grieving, Speak.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 78)
Who began this? On thy love, charge thee.   do not know.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 79)
Friends all but now, even now, In quarter and in terms like bride and groom Divesting them for bed; and then but now, As if some planet had unwitted men, Swords out, and tilting one at other's breast, In opposition bloody.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 80)
cannot speak Any beginning to this peevish odds, And would in action glorious had lost Those legs that brought me to a part of it!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 81)
How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?   pray you pardon me; cannot speak.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 82)
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil. The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 83)
And your name is great In mouths of wisest censure.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 84)
What's the matter That you unlace your reputation thus, And spend your rich opinion for the name Of a night-brawler?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 85)
Give me answer to it.   Worthy Othello, am hurt to danger.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 86)
Your officer Iago can inform you, While spare speech, which something now offends me, Of all that do know; nor know aught By me that's said or done amiss this night, Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice, And to defend ourselves it be a sin When violence assails us.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 87)
Now, by heaven, My blood begins my safer guides to rule, And passion, having my best judgment collied, Assays to lead the way.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 88)
Zounds, if stir, Or do but lift this arm, the best of you Shall sink in my rebuke.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 89)
Give me to know How this foul rout began, who set it on; And he that is approved in this offense, Though he had twinned with me, both at a birth, Shall lose me.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 90)
What, in a town of war Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear, To manage private and domestic quarrel, In night, and on the court and guard of safety?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 91)
'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began 't?   If partially affined, or leagued in office, Thou dost deliver more or less than truth, Thou art no soldier.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 92)
Touch me not so near. had rather have this tongue cut from my mouth Than it should do offense to Michael Cassio.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 93)
Yet persuade myself, to speak the truth Shall nothing wrong him.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 94)
Thus it is, general: Montano and myself being in speech, There comes a fellow crying out for help, And Cassio following him with determined sword To execute upon him.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 95)
Sir, this gentleman  Steps in to Cassio and entreats his pause.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 96)
Myself the crying fellow did pursue, Lest by his clamor--as it so fell out-- The town might fall in fright.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 97)
He, swift of foot, Outran my purpose, and returned the rather For that heard the clink and fall of swords And Cassio high in oath, which till tonight ne'er might say before.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 98)
When came back-- For this was brief--I found them close together At blow and thrust, even as again they were When you yourself did part them.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 99)
More of this matter cannot report. But men are men; the best sometimes forget.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 100)
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him, As men in rage strike those that wish them best, Yet surely Cassio, believe, received From him that fled some strange indignity Which patience could not pass.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 101)
know, Iago, Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter, Making it light to Cassio.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 102)
--Cassio, love thee, But nevermore be officer of mine.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 103)
Look if my gentle love be not raised up! I'll make thee an example.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 104)
What is the matter, dear?  All's well now, sweeting.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 105)
Come away to bed.  Sir, for your hurts, Myself will be your surgeon.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 106)
--Lead him off.  Iago, look with care about the town And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 107)
-- Come, Desdemona. 'Tis the soldier's life To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 108)
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?  Ay, past all surgery.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 109)
Marry, God forbid!  Reputation, reputation, reputation!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 110)
have lost my reputation! have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is bestial.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 111)
My reputation, Iago, my reputation!  As am an honest man, thought you had received some bodily wound.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 112)
There is more sense in that than in reputation. Reputation is an idle and most false imposition, oft got without merit and lost without deserving.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 113)
You have lost no reputation at all, unless you repute yourself such a loser.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 114)
What, man, there are ways to recover the General again!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 115)
You are but now cast in his mood--a punishment more in policy than in malice, even so as one would beat his offenseless dog to affright an imperious lion.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 116)
Sue to him again and he's yours.  will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so indiscreet an officer.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 117)
Drunk? And speak parrot? And squabble? Swagger? Swear?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 118)
And discourse fustian with one's own shadow? thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 119)
What was he that you followed with your sword? What had he done to you?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 120)
know not.  Is 't possible?  remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly; a quarrel, but nothing wherefore.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 121)
God, that men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 122)
That we should with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause transform ourselves into beasts!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 123)
Why, but you are now well enough. How came you thus recovered?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 124)
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place to the devil wrath.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 125)
One unperfectness shows me another, to make me frankly despise myself.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 126)
Come, you are too severe a moraler. As the time, the place, and the condition of this country stands, could heartily wish this had not so befallen.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 127)
But since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 128)
will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me am a drunkard!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 129)
Had as many mouths as Hydra, such an answer would stop them all.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 130)
To be now a sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a beast!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 131)
strange! Every inordinate cup is unblessed, and the ingredient is a devil.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 132)
Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature, if it be well used.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 133)
Exclaim no more against it. And, good lieutenant, think you think love you.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 134)
have well approved it, sir.--I drunk!  You or any man living may be drunk at a time, man.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 135)
I'll tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife is now the general: may say so in this respect, for that he hath devoted and given up himself to the contemplation, mark, and denotement of her parts and graces.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 136)
Confess yourself freely to her. Importune her help to put you in your place again.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 137)
She is of so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more than she is requested.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 138)
This broken joint between you and her husband entreat her to splinter, and, my fortunes against any lay worth naming, this crack of your love shall grow stronger than it was before.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 139)
You advise me well.  protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 140)
think it freely; and betimes in the morning will beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 141)
am desperate of my fortunes if they check me here.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 142)
You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant. must to the watch.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 143)
Good night, honest Iago.   And what's he, then, that says play the villain, When this advice is free give and honest, Probal to thinking, and indeed the course To win the Moor again?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 144)
For 'tis most easy Th' inclining Desdemona to subdue In any honest suit.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 145)
She's framed as fruitful As the free elements. And then for her To win the Moor--were 't to renounce his baptism, All seals and symbols of redeemed sin-- His soul is so enfettered to her love That she may make, unmake, do what she list, Even as her appetite shall play the god With his weak function.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 146)
How am then a villain To counsel Cassio to this parallel course Directly to his good?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 147)
Divinity of hell! When devils will the blackest sins put on, They do suggest at first with heavenly shows, As do now.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 148)
For whiles this honest fool Plies Desdemona to repair his fortune, And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor, I'll pour this pestilence into his ear: That she repeals him for her body's lust; And by how much she strives to do him good, She shall undo her credit with the Moor.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 149)
So will turn her virtue into pitch, And out of her own goodness make the net That shall enmesh them all.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 150)
How now, Roderigo?  do follow here in the chase, not like a hound that hunts, but one that fills up the cry.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 151)
My money is almost spent, have been tonight exceedingly well cudgeled, and think the issue will be shall have so much experience for my pains, and so, with no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 152)
How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees?(Othello, Act 2, Scene 153)
Thou know'st we work by wit and not by witchcraft, And wit depends on dilatory time.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 154)
Does 't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee, And thou, by that small hurt, hast cashiered Cassio.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 155)
Though other things grow fair against the sun, Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 156)
Content thyself awhile. By th' Mass, 'tis morning!(Othello, Act 2, Scene 157)
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short. Retire thee; go where thou art billeted.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 158)
Away, say! Thou shalt know more hereafter. Nay, get thee gone.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 159)
Two things are to be done. My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 160)
I'll set her on. Myself the while to draw the Moor apart And bring him jump when he may Cassio find Soliciting his wife.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 161)
Ay, that's the way. Dull not device by coldness and delay.(Othello, Act 2, Scene 162)
Yet cease your ire, you angry stars of heaven!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 0)
Wind, rain, and thunder, remember earthly man Is but a substance that must yield to you, And as fits my nature, do obey you.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 1)
Alas, the seas hath cast me on the rocks, Washed me from shore to shore, and left my breath Nothing to think on but ensuing death.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 2)
Let it suffice the greatness of your powers To have bereft a prince of all his fortunes; And, having thrown him from your wat'ry grave, Here to have death in peace is all he'll crave.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 3)
What ho, Pilch!  Ha, come and bring away the nets!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 4)
What, Patchbreech, say!  What say you, master?  Look how thou stirr'st now!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 5)
Come away, or I'll fetch thee with a wanion.  Faith, master, am thinking of the poor men that were cast away before us even now.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 6)
Alas, poor souls, it grieved my heart to hear what pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when, welladay, we could scarce help ourselves!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 7)
Nay, master, said not as much when saw the porpoise how he bounced and tumbled?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 8)
They say they're half fish, half flesh. plague on them!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 9)
They ne'er come but look to be washed. Master, marvel how the fishes live in the sea.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 10)
Why, as men do a-land: the great ones eat up the little ones.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 11)
can compare our rich misers to nothing so fitly as to a whale: he plays and tumbles, driving the poor fry before him and at last devours them all at a mouthful.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 12)
Such whales have heard on a' the land, who never leave gaping till they swallowed the whole parish-- church, steeple, bells and all.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 13)
pretty moral.  But, master, if had been the sexton, would have been that day in the belfry.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 14)
Why, man?  Because he should have swallowed me too.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 15)
And when had been in his belly, would have kept such a jangling of the bells that he should never have left till he cast bells, steeple, church, and parish up again.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 16)
But if the good King Simonides were of my mind--  Simonides?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 17)
We would purge the land of these drones that rob the bee of her honey.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 18)
How from the finny subject of the sea These fishers tell the infirmities of men, And from their wat'ry empire recollect All that may men approve or men detect!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 19)
-- Peace be at your labor, honest fishermen.  Honest good fellow, what's that?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 20)
If it be a day fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody look after it!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 21)
May see the sea hath cast upon your coast--  What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our way!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 22)
man whom both the waters and the wind In that vast tennis court hath made the ball For them to play upon entreats you pity him.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 23)
He asks of you that never used to beg.  No, friend, cannot you beg?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 24)
Here's them in our country of Greece gets more with begging than we can do with working.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 25)
Canst thou catch any fishes, then?  never practiced it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 26)
Nay, then, thou wilt starve sure, for here's nothing to be got nowadays unless thou canst fish for 't.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 27)
What have been have forgot to know, But what am want teaches me to think on: man thronged up with cold.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 28)
My veins are chill And have no more of life than may suffice To give my tongue that heat to ask your help-- Which, if you shall refuse, when am dead, For that am a man, pray you see me buried.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 29)
Die, quotha? Now gods forbid 't, an have a gown.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 30)
Here, come, put it on; keep thee warm.  Now, afore me, a handsome fellow!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 31)
Come, thou shalt go home, and we'll have flesh for holidays, fish for fasting days, and, moreo'er, puddings and flapjacks, and thou shalt be welcome.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 32)
thank you, sir.  Hark you, my friend. You said you could not beg?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 33)
did but crave.  But crave? Then I'll turn craver too, and so shall 'scape whipping.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 34)
Why, are your beggars whipped, then?  not all, my friend, not all; for if all your beggars were whipped, would wish no better office than to be beadle.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 35)
--But, master, I'll go draw up the net.   How well this honest mirth becomes their labor!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 36)
Hark you, sir, do you know where you are?  Not well.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 37)
Why, I'll tell you. This is called Pentapolis, and our king the good Simonides.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 38)
"The good Simonides" do you call him?  Ay, sir, and he deserves so to be called for his peaceable reign and good government.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 39)
He is a happy king, since he gains from his subjects the name of "good" by his government.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 40)
How far is his court distant from this shore?  Marry, sir, half a day's journey.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 41)
And I'll tell you, he hath a fair daughter, and tomorrow is her birthday; and there are princes and knights come from all parts of the world to joust and tourney for her love.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 42)
Were my fortunes equal to my desires, could wish to make one there.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 43)
sir, things must be as they may; and what a man cannot get he may lawfully deal for his wife's soul.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 44)
Help, master, help! Here's a fish hangs in the net like a poor man's right in the law: 'twill hardly come out.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 45)
Ha! Bots on 't, 'tis come at last, and 'tis turned to a rusty armor.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 46)
An armor, friends? pray you let me see it.  Thanks, Fortune, yet, that after all thy crosses Thou givest me somewhat to repair myself; And though it was mine own, part of my heritage Which my dead father did bequeath to me With this strict charge even as he left his life, "Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield 'Twixt me and death," and pointed to this brace, "For that it saved me, keep it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 47)
In like necessity-- The which the gods protect thee from--may 't defend thee.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 48)
" It kept where kept, so dearly loved it, Till the rough seas, that spares not any man, Took it in rage, though calmed have given 't again.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 49)
thank thee for 't; my shipwrack now's no ill Since have here my father gave in his will.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 50)
What mean you, sir?   To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth, For it was sometime target to a king; know it by this mark.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 51)
He loved me dearly, And for his sake wish the having of it, And that you'd guide me to your sovereign's court, Where with it may appear a gentleman.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 52)
And if that ever my low fortune's better, I'll pay your bounties; till then, rest your debtor.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 53)
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?   I'll show the virtue have borne in arms.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 54)
Why, do 'ee take it, and the gods give thee good on 't.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 55)
Ay, but hark you, my friend, 'twas we that made up this garment through the rough seams of the waters.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 56)
There are certain condolements, certain vails. hope, sir, if you thrive, you'll remember from whence you had them.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 57)
Believe 't, will. By your furtherance am clothed in steel, And spite of all the rupture of the sea, This jewel holds his biding on my arm.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 58)
Unto thy value will mount myself Upon a courser, whose delightful steps Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 59)
Only, my friend, yet am unprovided Of a pair of bases.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 60)
We'll sure provide. Thou shalt have my best gown to make thee a pair; and I'll bring thee to the court myself.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 61)
Then honor be but a goal to my will; This day I'll rise or else add ill to ill.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 0, Scene 62)
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?  They are, my liege, And stay your coming to present themselves.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 0)
Return them we are ready, and our daughter here, In honor of whose birth these triumphs are, Sits here like Beauty's child, whom Nature gat For men to see and, seeing, wonder at.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 1)
It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express My commendations great, whose merit's less.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 2)
It's fit it should be so, for princes are model which heaven makes like to itself.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 3)
As jewels lose their glory if neglected, So princes their renowns if not respected.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 4)
'Tis now your honor, daughter, to entertain The labor of each knight in his device.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 5)
Which to preserve mine honor, I'll perform.        Who is the first that doth prefer himself?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 6)
knight of Sparta, my renowned father, And the device he bears upon his shield Is a black Ethiop reaching at the sun; The word: Lux tua vita mihi.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 7)
He loves you well that holds his life of you.      Who is the second that presents himself?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 8)
prince of Macedon, my royal father, And the device he bears upon his shield Is an armed knight that's conquered by a lady.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 9)
The motto thus, in Spanish: Pue per doleera kee per forsa.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 10)
And what's the third?  The third, of Antioch; And his device a wreath of chivalry; The word: Me pompae provexit apex.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 11)
What is the fourth?   burning torch that's turned upside down; The word: Qui me alit me extinguit.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 12)
Which shows that beauty hath his power and will, Which can as well inflame as it can kill.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 13)
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds, Holding out gold that's by the touchstone tried; The motto thus: Sic spectanda fides.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 14)
And what's the sixth and last, the which the knight himself With such a graceful courtesy delivered?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 15)
He seems to be a stranger; but his present is withered branch that's only green at top, The motto: In hac spe vivo.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 16)
pretty moral. From the dejected state wherein he is, He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 17)
He had need mean better than his outward show Can any way speak in his just commend, For by his rusty outside he appears To have practiced more the whipstock than the lance.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 18)
He well may be a stranger, for he comes To an honored triumph strangely furnished.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 19)
And on set purpose let his armor rust Until this day, to scour it in the dust.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 20)
Opinion's but a fool that makes us scan The outward habit by the inward man.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 21)
But stay, the knights are coming. We will withdraw into the gallery.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 1, Scene 22)
Knights, To say you're welcome were superfluous.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 0)
To place upon the volume of your deeds, As in a title page, your worth in arms Were more than you expect or more than 's fit, Since every worth in show commends itself.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 1)
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast. You are princes and my guests.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 2)
But you my knight and guest, To whom this wreath of victory give And crown you king of this day's happiness.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 3)
'Tis more by fortune, lady, than my merit.   Call it by what you will, the day is yours, And here, hope, is none that envies it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 4)
In framing an artist, Art hath thus decreed, To make some good but others to exceed, And you are her labored scholar.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 5)
--Come, queen o' the feast, For, daughter, so you are; here, take your place.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 6)
-- Marshal, the rest as they deserve their grace.   We are honored much by good Simonides.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 7)
Your presence glads our days. Honor we love, For who hates honor hates the gods above.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 8)
Sir, yonder is your place.  Some other is more fit.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 9)
Contend not, sir, for we are gentlemen Have neither in our hearts nor outward eyes Envies the great, nor shall the low despise.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 10)
You are right courteous knights.  Sit, sir, sit.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 11)
By Jove wonder, that is king of thoughts, These cates resist me, he not thought upon.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 12)
By Juno, that is queen of marriage, All viands that eat do seem unsavory, Wishing him my meat.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 13)
--Sure, he's a gallant gentleman.   He's but a country gentleman; Has done no more than other knights have done; Has broken a staff or so.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 14)
So let it pass.   To me he seems like diamond to glass.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 15)
Yon king's to me like to my father's picture, Which tells in that glory once he was-- Had princes sit like stars about his throne, And he the sun for them to reverence.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 16)
None that beheld him but like lesser lights Did vail their crowns to his supremacy; Where now his son's like a glowworm in the night, The which hath fire in darkness, none in light; Whereby see that Time's the king of men.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 17)
He's both their parent, and he is their grave, And gives them what he will, not what they crave.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 18)
What, are you merry, knights?   Who can be other in this royal presence?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 19)
Here, with a cup that's stored unto the brim, As do you love, fill to your mistress' lips.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 20)
We drink this health to you.  We thank your Grace.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 21)
Yet pause awhile. Yon knight doth sit too melancholy, As if the entertainment in our court Had not a show might countervail his worth.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 22)
-- Note it not you, Thaisa?  What is 't to me, my father?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 23)
attend, my daughter. Princes in this Should live like gods above, who freely give To everyone that come to honor them.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 24)
And princes not doing so are like to gnats, Which make a sound but, killed, are wondered at.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 25)
Therefore, to make his entrance more sweet, Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 26)
Alas, my father, it befits not me Unto a stranger knight to be so bold.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 27)
He may my proffer take for an offense, Since men take women's gifts for impudence.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 28)
How? Do as bid you, or you'll move me else.   Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 29)
And furthermore tell him we desire to know of him Of whence he is, his name and parentage.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 30)
The King, my father, sir, has drunk to you.  thank him.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 31)
Wishing it so much blood unto your life.   thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 32)
And further, he desires to know of you Of whence you are, your name and parentage.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 33)
gentleman of Tyre, my name Pericles. My education been in arts and arms, Who, looking for adventures in the world, Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men, And after shipwrack driven upon this shore.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 34)
He thanks your Grace; names himself Pericles, gentleman of Tyre, Who only by misfortune of the seas, Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 35)
Now, by the gods, pity his misfortune, And will awake him from his melancholy.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 36)
-- Come, gentlemen, we sit too long on trifles And waste the time which looks for other revels.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 37)
Even in your armors, as you are addressed, Will well become a soldiers' dance.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 38)
will not have excuse with saying this: "Loud music is too harsh for ladies' heads," Since they love men in arms as well as beds.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 39)
So, this was well asked, 'twas so well performed.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 40)
Come, sir. Here's a lady that wants breathing too, And have heard you knights of Tyre Are excellent in making ladies trip, And that their measures are as excellent.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 41)
In those that practice them they are, my lord.   that's as much as you would be denied Of your fair courtesy.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 42)
Unclasp, unclasp! Thanks, gentlemen, to all; all have done well; But you the best.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 43)
--Pages and lights, to conduct These knights unto their several lodgings.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 44)
Yours, sir, We have given order be next our own.  am at your Grace's pleasure.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 45)
Princes, it is too late to talk of love, And that's the mark know you level at.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 46)
Therefore each one betake him to his rest, Tomorrow all for speeding do their best.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 2, Scene 47)
2   2 Chorus      Here have you seen a mighty king His child, iwis, to incest bring; better prince and benign lord That will prove awful both in deed and word.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 0)
Be quiet, then, as men should be, Till he hath passed necessity.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 1)
I'll show you those in troubles reign, Losing a mite, a mountain gain.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 2)
The good in conversation, To whom give my benison, Is still at Tarsus, where each man Thinks all is Writ he speken can, And, to remember what he does, Build his statue to make him glorious.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 3)
But tidings to the contrary Are brought your eyes.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 4)
What need speak    Enter at one door Pericles talking with Cleon, all the train with them.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 5)
Enter at another door a Gentleman, with a letter to Pericles.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 6)
Pericles shows the letter to Cleon. Pericles gives the Messenger a reward and knights    Good Helicane, that stayed at home-- Not to eat honey like a drone From others' labors, for though he strive To killen bad, keep good alive, And to fulfill his prince' desire-- Sends word of all that haps in Tyre: How Thaliard came full bent with sin, And had intent to murder him; And that in Tarsus was not best Longer for him to make his rest.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 7)
He, doing so, put forth to seas, Where when men been there's seldom ease; For now the wind begins to blow; Thunder above and deeps below Makes such unquiet that the ship Should house him safe is wracked and split, And he, good prince, having all lost, By waves from coast to coast is tossed.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 8)
All perishen of man, of pelf, Ne aught escapend but himself; Till Fortune, tired with doing bad, Threw him ashore to give him glad.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 9)
And here he comes. What shall be next, Pardon old Gower--this 'longs the text.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 10)
No, Escanes, know this of me: Antiochus from incest lived not free, For which the most high gods not minding longer To withhold the vengeance that they had in store Due to this heinous capital offense, Even in the height and pride of all his glory, When he was seated in a chariot of An inestimable value, and his daughter with him, fire from heaven came and shriveled up Those bodies even to loathing, for they so stunk That all those eyes adored them, ere their fall, Scorn now their hand should give them burial.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 11)
'Twas very strange.   And yet but justice; for though this king were great, His greatness was no guard to bar heaven's shaft, But sin had his reward.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 12)
'Tis very true.      See, not a man in private conference Or counsel has respect with him but he.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 13)
It shall no longer grieve without reproof.   And cursed be he that will not second it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 14)
Follow me, then.--Lord Helicane, a word.   With me?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 15)
And welcome. Happy day, my lords.   Know that our griefs are risen to the top, And now at length they overflow their banks.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 16)
Your griefs? For what? Wrong not your prince you love.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 17)
Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane. But if the Prince do live, let us salute him, Or know what ground's made happy by his breath.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 18)
If in the world he live, we'll seek him out; If in his grave he rest, we'll find him there, And be resolved he lives to govern us, Or dead, give 's cause to mourn his funeral And leave us to our free election.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 19)
Whose death's indeed the strongest in our censure; And knowing this kingdom is without a head-- Like goodly buildings left without a roof Soon fall to ruin--your noble self, That best know how to rule and how to reign, We thus submit unto, our sovereign.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 20)
Live, noble Helicane!   Try honor's cause; forbear your suffrages.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 21)
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear. Take your wish, leap into the seas, Where's hourly trouble for a minute's ease.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 22)
twelve-month longer let me entreat you To forbear the absence of your king; If in which time expired, he not return, shall with aged patience bear your yoke.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 23)
But if cannot win you to this love, Go search like nobles, like noble subjects, And in your search spend your adventurous worth, Whom if you find and win unto return, You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 24)
To wisdom he's a fool that will not yield. And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us, We with our travels will endeavor.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 25)
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 3, Scene 26)
Good morrow to the good Simonides.   Knights, from my daughter this let you know, That for this twelvemonth she'll not undertake married life.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 0)
Her reason to herself is only known, Which from her by no means can get.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 1)
May we not get access to her, my lord?   Faith, by no means; she hath so strictly tied her To her chamber that 'tis impossible.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 2)
One twelve moons more she'll wear Diana's livery.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 3)
This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vowed, And on her virgin honor will not break it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 4)
Loath to bid farewell, we take our leaves.   So, They are well dispatched.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 5)
Now to my daughter's letter. She tells me here she'll wed the stranger knight Or never more to view nor day nor light.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 6)
'Tis well, mistress, your choice agrees with mine.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 7)
like that well. Nay, how absolute she's in 't, Not minding whether dislike or no!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 8)
Well, do commend her choice, and will no longer Have it be delayed.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 9)
Soft, here he comes. must dissemble it.      All fortune to the good Simonides.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 10)
To you as much. Sir, am beholding to you For your sweet music this last night.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 11)
do Protest, my ears were never better fed With such delightful pleasing harmony.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 12)
It is your Grace's pleasure to commend, Not my desert.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 13)
Sir, you are music's master.   The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 14)
Let me ask you one thing: What do you think of my daughter, sir?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 15)
most virtuous princess.  And she is fair too, is she not?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 16)
As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.   Sir, my daughter thinks very well of you, Ay, so well that you must be her master, And she will be your scholar.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 17)
Therefore, look to it.   am unworthy for her schoolmaster.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 18)
She thinks not so. Peruse this writing else.  What's here?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 19)
letter that she loves the knight of Tyre? 'Tis the King's subtlety to have my life.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 20)
-- seek not to entrap me, gracious lord, stranger and distressed gentleman That never aimed so high to love your daughter, But bent all offices to honor her.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 21)
Thou hast bewitched my daughter, and thou art villain.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 22)
By the gods, have not! Never did thought of mine levy offense; Nor never did my actions yet commence deed might gain her love or your displeasure.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 23)
Traitor, thou liest!  Traitor?  Ay, traitor.   Even in his throat, unless it be the King That calls me traitor, return the lie.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 24)
Now, by the gods, do applaud his courage.   My actions are as noble as my thoughts, That never relished of a base descent.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 25)
came unto your court for honor's cause, And not to be a rebel to her state, And he that otherwise accounts of me, This sword shall prove he's honor's enemy.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 26)
No? Here comes my daughter. She can witness it.      Then as you are as virtuous as fair, Resolve your angry father if my tongue Did e'er solicit or my hand subscribe To any syllable that made love to you.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 27)
Why, sir, say if you had, who takes offense At that would make me glad?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 28)
Yea, mistress, are you so peremptory? am glad on 't with all my heart.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 29)
-- I'll tame you! I'll bring you in subjection. Will you, not having my consent, Bestow your love and your affections Upon a stranger?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 30)
Who, for aught know, May be--nor can think the contrary-- As great in blood as myself.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 31)
-- Therefore, hear you, mistress: either frame Your will to mine--and you, sir, hear you: Either be ruled by me--or I'll make you Man and wife.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 32)
Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too. And being joined, I'll thus your hopes destroy.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 33)
And for further grief--God give you joy! What, are you both pleased?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 34)
Yes,  if you love me, sir.   Even as my life my blood that fosters it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 35)
What, are you both agreed?  Yes, if 't please your Majesty.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 36)
It pleaseth me so well that will see you wed, And then with what haste you can, get you to bed.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 4, Scene 37)
The god of this great vast, rebuke these surges, Which wash both heaven and hell!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 0)
And thou that hast Upon the winds command, bind them in brass, Having called them from the deep!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 1)
still Thy deaf'ning dreadful thunders, gently quench Thy nimble sulfurous flashes.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 2)
--O, how, Lychorida, How does my queen?--Then, storm, venomously Wilt thou spit all thyself?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 3)
The seaman's whistle Is as a whisper in the ears of death, Unheard.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 4)
--Lychorida!--Lucina, Divinest patroness and midwife gentle To those that cry by night, convey thy deity Aboard our dancing boat, make swift the pangs Of my queen's travails!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 5)
--Now, Lychorida!      Here is a thing too young for such a place, Who, if it had conceit, would die, as Am like to do.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 6)
Take in your arms this piece Of your dead queen.  How?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 7)
How, Lychorida?   Patience, good sir. Do not assist the storm.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 8)
Here's all that is left living of your queen, little daughter.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 9)
For the sake of it, Be manly and take comfort.  you gods!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 10)
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts And snatch them straight away?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 11)
We here below Recall not what we give, and therein may Use honor with you.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 12)
Patience, good sir, Even for this charge.  Now mild may be thy life, For a more blusterous birth had never babe.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 13)
Quiet and gentle thy conditions, for Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world That ever was prince's child.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 14)
Happy what follows! Thou hast as chiding a nativity As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make To herald thee from the womb.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 15)
Even at the first, thy loss is more than can Thy portage quit, with all thou canst find here.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 16)
Now the good gods throw their best eyes upon 't.     What courage, sir?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 17)
God save you.   Courage enough. do not fear the flaw.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 18)
It hath done to me the worst. Yet for the love Of this poor infant, this fresh new seafarer, would it would be quiet.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 19)
Slack the bowlines there!--Thou wilt not, wilt thou?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 20)
Blow, and split thyself!  But searoom, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss the moon, care not.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 21)
Sir, your queen must overboard. The sea works high, the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be cleared of the dead.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 22)
That's your superstition.  Pardon us, sir; with us at sea it hath been still observed, and we are strong in custom.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 23)
Therefore briefly yield 'er, for she must overboard straight.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 24)
As you think meet.--Most wretched queen!  Here she lies, sir.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 25)
terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear, No light, no fire.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 26)
Th' unfriendly elements Forgot thee utterly. Nor have time To give thee hallowed to thy grave, but straight Must cast thee, scarcely coffined, in the ooze, Where, for a monument upon thy bones And e'er-remaining lamps, the belching whale And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse, Lying with simple shells.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 27)
--O, Lychorida, Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink, and paper, My casket and my jewels; and bid Nicander Bring me the satin coffin.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 28)
Lay the babe Upon the pillow. Hie thee, whiles say priestly farewell to her.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 29)
Suddenly, woman!   Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked and bitumed ready.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 30)
thank thee, mariner. Say, what coast is this?  We are near Tarsus.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 31)
Thither, gentle mariner. Alter thy course for Tyre.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 32)
When canst thou reach it?  By break of day if the wind cease.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 33)
make for Tarsus! There will visit Cleon, for the babe Cannot hold out to Tyrus.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 34)
There I'll leave it At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 22, Scene 35)
Philemon, ho!     Doth my lord call?  Get fire and meat for these poor men.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 0)
has been a turbulent and stormy night.    have been in many; but such a night as this, Till now, ne'er endured.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 1)
Your master will be dead ere you return. There's nothing can be ministered to nature That can recover him.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 2)
Give this to the 'pothecary, And tell me how it works.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 3)
Good morrow.  Good morrow to your Lordship.   Gentlemen, why do you stir so early?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 4)
Sir, Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea, Shook as the earth did quake.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 5)
The very principals did seem to rend And all to topple.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 6)
Pure surprise and fear Made me to quit the house.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 7)
That is the cause we trouble you so early. 'Tis not our husbandry.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 8)
you say well.   But much marvel that your Lordship, having Rich tire about you, should at these early hours Shake off the golden slumber of repose.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 9)
'Tis most strange Nature should be so conversant with pain, Being thereto not compelled.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 10)
hold it ever Virtue and cunning were endowments greater Than nobleness and riches.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 11)
Careless heirs May the two latter darken and expend, But immortality attends the former, Making a man a god.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 12)
'Tis known ever Have studied physic, through which secret art, By turning o'er authorities, have, Together with my practice, made familiar To me and to my aid the blessed infusions That dwells in vegetives, in metals, stones; And can speak of the disturbances That Nature works, and of her cures; which doth give me more content in course of true delight Than to be thirsty after tottering honor, Or tie my pleasure up in silken bags To please the fool and death.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 13)
Your Honor has through Ephesus poured forth Your charity, and hundreds call themselves Your creatures, who by you have been restored; And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even Your purse, still open, hath built Lord Cerimon Such strong renown, as time shall never--      So, lift there.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 14)
What's that?  Sir, even now Did the sea toss up upon our shore this chest.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 15)
'Tis of some wrack.  Set 't down. Let's look upon 't.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 16)
'Tis like a coffin, sir.  What e'er it be, 'Tis wondrous heavy.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 17)
Wrench it open straight. If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold, 'Tis a good constraint of Fortune it belches upon us.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 18)
'Tis so, my lord.  How close 'tis caulked and bitumed!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 19)
Did the sea cast it up?   never saw so huge a billow, sir, As tossed it upon shore.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 20)
Wrench it open. Soft! It smells most sweetly in my sense.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 21)
delicate odor.   As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 22)
you most potent gods! What's here? corse?  Most strange!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 23)
Shrouded in cloth of state, balmed and entreasured With full bags of spices.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 24)
passport too! Apollo, perfect me in the characters.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 25)
Here give to understand, If e'er this coffin drives aland, King Pericles, have lost This queen, worth all our mundane cost.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 26)
Who finds her, give her burying. She was the daughter of a king.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 27)
Besides this treasure for a fee, The gods requite his charity.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 28)
If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart That ever cracks for woe.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 29)
This chanced tonight.   Most likely, sir.  Nay, certainly tonight, For look how fresh she looks.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 30)
They were too rough That threw her in the sea.--Make a fire within; Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 31)
Death may usurp on nature many hours, And yet the fire of life kindle again The o'erpressed spirits.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 32)
heard of an Egyptian That had nine hours lain dead, Who was by good appliance recovered.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 33)
Well said, well said! The fire and cloths. The rough and woeful music that we have, Cause it to sound, beseech you.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 34)
The viol once more! How thou stirr'st, thou block!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 35)
The music there.  pray you, give her air. Gentlemen, This queen will live.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 36)
Nature awakes a warm breath Out of her. She hath not been entranced Above five hours.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 37)
See how she gins to blow Into life's flower again.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 38)
The heavens, through you, Increase our wonder, and sets up your fame Forever.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 39)
She is alive. Behold her eyelids-- Cases to those heavenly jewels which Pericles hath lost-- Begin to part their fringes of bright gold.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 40)
The diamonds of a most praised water doth Appear to make the world twice rich.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 41)
--Live, And make us weep to hear your fate, fair creature, Rare as you seem to be.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 42)
dear Diana, Where am Where's my lord? What world is this?(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 43)
Is not this strange?  Most rare!  Hush, my gentle neighbors!(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 44)
Lend me your hands. To the next chamber bear her.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 45)
Get linen. Now this matter must be looked to, For her relapse is mortal.(Pericles, Prince of Tyre, Act 23, Scene 46)
Will the King come, that may breathe my last In wholesome counsel to his unstaid youth?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 0)
Vex not yourself nor strive not with your breath, For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 1)
but they say the tongues of dying men Enforce attention like deep harmony.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 2)
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain, For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 3)
He that no more must say is listened more Than they whom youth and ease have taught to gloze.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 4)
More are men's ends marked than their lives before.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 5)
The setting sun and music at the close, As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last, Writ in remembrance more than things long past.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 6)
Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear, My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 7)
No, it is stopped with other flattering sounds, As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond; Lascivious meters, to whose venom sound The open ear of youth doth always listen; Report of fashions in proud Italy, Whose manners still our tardy-apish nation Limps after in base imitation.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 8)
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity-- So it be new, there's no respect how vile-- That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 9)
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 10)
Direct not him whose way himself will choose. 'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 11)
Methinks am a prophet new inspired And thus expiring do foretell of him: His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last, For violent fires soon burn out themselves; Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short; He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes; With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder; Light vanity, insatiate cormorant, Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 12)
This royal throne of kings, this sceptered isle, This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars, This other Eden, demi-paradise, This fortress built by Nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war, This happy breed of men, this little world, This precious stone set in the silver sea, Which serves it in the office of a wall Or as a moat defensive to a house, Against the envy of less happier lands, This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England, This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings, Feared by their breed and famous by their birth, Renowned for their deeds as far from home For Christian service and true chivalry As is the sepulcher in stubborn Jewry Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's son, This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land, Dear for her reputation through the world, Is now leased out--I die pronouncing it-- Like to a tenement or pelting farm.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 13)
England, bound in with the triumphant sea, Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege Of wat'ry Neptune, is now bound in with shame, With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 14)
That England that was wont to conquer others Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 15)
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life, How happy then were my ensuing death!(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 16)
The King is come. Deal mildly with his youth, For young hot colts being reined do rage the more.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 17)
How fares our noble uncle Lancaster?   What comfort, man?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 18)
How is 't with aged Gaunt?   how that name befits my composition!(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 19)
Old Gaunt indeed and gaunt in being old. Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast, And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 20)
For sleeping England long time have watched; Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 21)
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon Is my strict fast--I mean my children's looks-- And, therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 22)
Gaunt am for the grave, gaunt as a grave, Whose hollow womb inherits naught but bones.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 23)
Can sick men play so nicely with their names?   No, misery makes sport to mock itself.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 24)
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me, mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 25)
Should dying men flatter with those that live?   No, no, men living flatter those that die.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 26)
Thou, now a-dying, sayest thou flatterest me.   no, thou diest, though the sicker be.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 27)
am in health, breathe, and see thee ill.   Now He that made me knows see thee ill, Ill in myself to see, and in thee, seeing ill.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 28)
Thy deathbed is no lesser than thy land, Wherein thou liest in reputation sick; And thou, too careless-patient as thou art, Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure Of those physicians that first wounded thee.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 29)
thousand flatterers sit within thy crown, Whose compass is no bigger than thy head, And yet encaged in so small a verge, The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 30)
had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons, From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame, Deposing thee before thou wert possessed, Which art possessed now to depose thyself.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 31)
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world, It were a shame to let this land by lease; But, for thy world enjoying but this land, Is it not more than shame to shame it so?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 32)
Landlord of England art thou now, not king. Thy state of law is bondslave to the law, And thou--  lunatic lean-witted fool, Presuming on an ague's privilege, Darest with thy frozen admonition Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood With fury from his native residence.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 33)
Now, by my seat's right royal majesty, Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son, This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 34)
spare me not, my brother Edward's son, For that was his father Edward's son!(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 35)
That blood already, like the pelican, Hast thou tapped out and drunkenly caroused.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 36)
My brother Gloucester--plain, well-meaning soul, Whom fair befall in heaven 'mongst happy souls-- May be a precedent and witness good That thou respect'st not spilling Edward's blood.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 37)
Join with the present sickness that have, And thy unkindness be like crooked age To crop at once a too-long withered flower.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 38)
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee! These words hereafter thy tormentors be!(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 39)
-- Convey me to my bed, then to my grave. Love they to live that love and honor have.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 40)
And let them die that age and sullens have, For both hast thou, and both become the grave.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 41)
do beseech your Majesty, impute his words To wayward sickliness and age in him.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 42)
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear As Harry, Duke of Hereford, were he here.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 43)
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his; As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 44)
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your Majesty.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 45)
What says he?  Nay, nothing; all is said. His tongue is now a stringless instrument; Words, life, and all, old Lancaster hath spent.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 46)
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so! Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 47)
The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he; His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 48)
So much for that. Now for our Irish wars: We must supplant those rough rugheaded kern, Which live like venom where no venom else But only they have privilege to live.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 49)
And, for these great affairs do ask some charge, Towards our assistance we do seize to us The plate, coin, revenues, and movables Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possessed.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 50)
How long shall be patient? Ah, how long Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 51)
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment, Nor Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs, Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke About his marriage, nor my own disgrace, Have ever made me sour my patient cheek Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 52)
am the last of noble Edward's sons, Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 53)
In war was never lion raged more fierce, In peace was never gentle lamb more mild, Than was that young and princely gentleman.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 54)
His face thou hast, for even so looked he, Accomplished with the number of thy hours; But when he frowned, it was against the French And not against his friends.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 55)
His noble hand Did win what he did spend, and spent not that Which his triumphant father's hand had won.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 56)
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood, But bloody with the enemies of his kin.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 57)
Richard! York is too far gone with grief, Or else he never would compare between.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 58)
Why, uncle, what's the matter?  my liege, Pardon me if you please.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 59)
If not, pleased Not to be pardoned, am content withal.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 60)
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands The royalties and rights of banished Hereford?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 61)
Is not Gaunt dead? And doth not Hereford live? Was not Gaunt just?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 62)
And is not Harry true? Did not the one deserve to have an heir?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 63)
Is not his heir a well-deserving son? Take Hereford's rights away, and take from time His charters and his customary rights; Let not tomorrow then ensue today; Be not thyself; for how art thou a king But by fair sequence and succession?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 64)
Now afore God--God forbid say true!-- If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights, Call in the letters patents that he hath By his attorneys general to sue His livery, and deny his offered homage, You pluck a thousand dangers on your head, You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts, And prick my tender patience to those thoughts Which honor and allegiance cannot think.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 65)
Think what you will, we seize into our hands His plate, his goods, his money, and his lands.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 66)
I'll not be by the while. My liege, farewell. What will ensue hereof there's none can tell; But by bad courses may be understood That their events can never fall out good.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 67)
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight. Bid him repair to us to Ely House To see this business.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 68)
Tomorrow next We will for Ireland, and 'tis time, trow.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 69)
And we create, in absence of ourself, Our uncle York Lord Governor of England, For he is just and always loved us well.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 70)
-- Come on, our queen. Tomorrow must we part. Be merry, for our time of stay is short.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 71)
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.   And living too, for now his son is duke.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 72)
Barely in title, not in revenues.   Richly in both, if justice had her right.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 73)
My heart is great, but it must break with silence Ere 't be disburdened with a liberal tongue.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 74)
Nay, speak thy mind, and let him ne'er speak more That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 75)
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 76)
If it be so, out with it boldly, man. Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 77)
No good at all that can do for him, Unless you call it good to pity him, Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 78)
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne In him, a royal prince, and many more Of noble blood in this declining land.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 79)
The King is not himself, but basely led By flatterers; and what they will inform Merely in hate 'gainst any of us all, That will the King severely prosecute 'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 80)
The commons hath he pilled with grievous taxes, And quite lost their hearts.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 81)
The nobles hath he fined For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 82)
And daily new exactions are devised, As blanks, benevolences, and wot not what.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 83)
But what i' God's name doth become of this?   Wars hath not wasted it, for warred he hath not, But basely yielded upon compromise That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 84)
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.   The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 85)
The King grown bankrupt like a broken man.   Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 86)
He hath not money for these Irish wars, His burdenous taxations notwithstanding, But by the robbing of the banished duke.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 87)
His noble kinsman. Most degenerate king! But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing, Yet seek no shelter to avoid the storm; We see the wind sit sore upon our sails, And yet we strike not, but securely perish.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 88)
We see the very wrack that we must suffer, And unavoided is the danger now For suffering so the causes of our wrack.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 89)
Not so. Even through the hollow eyes of death spy life peering; but dare not say How near the tidings of our comfort is.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 90)
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 91)
Be confident to speak, Northumberland. We three are but thyself, and speaking so Thy words are but as thoughts.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 92)
Therefore be bold.   Then thus: have from Le Port Blanc, bay in Brittany, received intelligence That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham, That late broke from the Duke of Exeter, His brother, archbishop late of Canterbury, Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston, Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton, and Francis Coint-- All these well furnished by the Duke of Brittany With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war, Are making hither with all due expedience And shortly mean to touch our northern shore.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 93)
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay The first departing of the King for Ireland.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 94)
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke, Imp out our drooping country's broken wing, Redeem from broking pawn the blemished crown, Wipe off the dust that hides our scepter's gilt, And make high majesty look like itself, Away with me in post to Ravenspurgh.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 95)
But if you faint, as fearing to do so, Stay and be secret, and myself will go.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 96)
To horse, to horse! Urge doubts to them that fear.(Richard II, Act 0, Scene 97)
Madam, your Majesty is too much sad. You promised, when you parted with the King, To lay aside life-harming heaviness And entertain a cheerful disposition.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 0)
To please the King did; to please myself cannot do it.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 1)
Yet know no cause Why should welcome such a guest as grief, Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest As my sweet Richard.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 2)
Yet again methinks Some unborn sorrow ripe in Fortune's womb Is coming towards me, and my inward soul With nothing trembles.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 3)
At some thing it grieves More than with parting from my lord the King.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 4)
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows Which shows like grief itself but is not so; For sorrow's eyes, glazed with blinding tears, Divides one thing entire to many objects, Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon Show nothing but confusion, eyed awry Distinguish form.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 5)
So your sweet Majesty, Looking awry upon your lord's departure, Find shapes of grief more than himself to wail, Which, looked on as it is, is naught but shadows Of what it is not.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 6)
Then, thrice-gracious queen, More than your lord's departure weep not.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 7)
More is not seen, Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye, Which for things true weeps things imaginary.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 8)
It may be so, but yet my inward soul Persuades me it is otherwise.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 9)
Howe'er it be, cannot but be sad--so heavy sad As thought, on thinking on no thought think, Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 10)
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.   'Tis nothing less.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 11)
Conceit is still derived From some forefather grief.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 12)
Mine is not so, For nothing hath begot my something grief-- Or something hath the nothing that grieve.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 13)
'Tis in reversion that do possess, But what it is that is not yet known what, cannot name.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 14)
'Tis nameless woe, wot.      God save your Majesty!(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 15)
--And well met, gentlemen. hope the King is not yet shipped for Ireland.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 16)
Why hopest thou so? 'Tis better hope he is, For his designs crave haste, his haste good hope.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 17)
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipped?   That he, our hope, might have retired his power And driven into despair an enemy's hope, Who strongly hath set footing in this land.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 18)
The banished Bolingbroke repeals himself And with uplifted arms is safe arrived At Ravenspurgh.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 19)
Now God in heaven forbid!   Ah, madam, 'tis too true.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 20)
And that is worse, The Lord Northumberland, his son young Harry Percy, The Lords of Ross, Beaumont, and Willoughby, With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 21)
Why have you not proclaimed Northumberland And all the rest revolted faction traitors?(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 22)
We have; whereupon the Earl of Worcester Hath broken his staff, resigned his stewardship, And all the Household servants fled with him To Bolingbroke.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 23)
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe, And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 24)
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy, And a gasping new-delivered mother, Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow joined.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 25)
Despair not, madam.  Who shall hinder me? will despair and be at enmity With cozening hope.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 26)
He is a flatterer, parasite, a keeper-back of death, Who gently would dissolve the bands of life Which false hope lingers in extremity.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 27)
Here comes the Duke of York.   With signs of war about his aged neck.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 28)
full of careful business are his looks!-- Uncle, for God's sake speak comfortable words.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 29)
Should do so, should belie my thoughts. Comfort's in heaven, and we are on the Earth, Where nothing lives but crosses, cares, and grief.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 30)
Your husband, he is gone to save far off Whilst others come to make him lose at home.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 31)
Here am left to underprop his land, Who, weak with age, cannot support myself.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 32)
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made; Now shall he try his friends that flattered him.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 33)
My lord, your son was gone before came.   He was?(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 34)
Why, so go all which way it will. The nobles they are fled; the commons they are cold And will, fear, revolt on Hereford's side.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 35)
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester; Bid her send me presently a thousand pound.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 36)
Hold, take my ring.   My lord, had forgot to tell your Lordship: Today as came by called there-- But shall grieve you to report the rest.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 37)
What is 't, knave?   An hour before came, the Duchess died.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 38)
God for His mercy, what a tide of woes Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 39)
know not what to do. would to God, So my untruth had not provoked him to it, The King had cut off my head with my brother's!(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 40)
What, are there no posts dispatched for Ireland? How shall we do for money for these wars?(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 41)
-- Come, sister--cousin would say, pray pardon me.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 42)
-- Go, fellow, get thee home. Provide some carts And bring away the armor that is there.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 43)
Gentlemen, will you go muster men? If know how or which way to order these affairs Thus disorderly thrust into my hands, Never believe me.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 44)
Both are my kinsmen. one is my sovereign, whom both my oath And duty bids defend; t' other again Is my kinsman, whom the King hath wronged, Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 45)
Well, somewhat we must do.  Come, cousin, I'll dispose of you.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 46)
--Gentlemen, go muster up your men And meet me presently at Berkeley.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 47)
should to Plashy too, But time will not permit. All is uneven, And everything is left at six and seven.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 48)
The wind sits fair for news to go for Ireland, But none returns.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 49)
For us to levy power Proportionable to the enemy Is all unpossible.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 50)
Besides, our nearness to the King in love Is near the hate of those love not the King.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 51)
And that is the wavering commons, for their love Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 52)
Wherein the King stands generally condemned.   If judgment lie in them, then so do we, Because we ever have been near the King.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 53)
Well, will for refuge straight to Bristow Castle.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 54)
The Earl of Wiltshire is already there.   Thither will with you, for little office Will the hateful commons perform for us, Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 55)
-- Will you go along with us?   No, will to Ireland to his Majesty.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 56)
Farewell. If heart's presages be not vain, We three here part that ne'er shall meet again.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 57)
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 58)
Alas, poor duke, the task he undertakes Is numb'ring sands and drinking oceans dry.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 59)
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 60)
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.   Well, we may meet again.(Richard II, Act 1, Scene 61)
How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?  Believe me, noble lord, am a stranger here in Gloucestershire.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 0)
These high wild hills and rough uneven ways Draws out our miles and makes them wearisome.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 1)
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar, Making the hard way sweet and delectable.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 2)
But bethink me what a weary way From Ravenspurgh to Cotshall will be found In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company, Which, protest, hath very much beguiled The tediousness and process of my travel.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 3)
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have The present benefit which possess, And hope to joy is little less in joy Than hope enjoyed.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 4)
By this the weary lords Shall make their way seem short as mine hath done By sight of what have, your noble company.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 5)
Of much less value is my company Than your good words.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 6)
But who comes here?     It is my son, young Harry Percy, Sent from my brother Worcester whencesoever.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 7)
-- Harry, how fares your uncle?   had thought, my lord, to have learned his health of you.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 8)
Why, is he not with the Queen?   No, my good lord, he hath forsook the court, Broken his staff of office, and dispersed The Household of the King.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 9)
What was his reason? He was not so resolved When last we spake together.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 10)
Because your Lordship was proclaimed traitor. But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh To offer service to the Duke of Hereford, And sent me over by Berkeley to discover What power the Duke of York had levied there, Then with directions to repair to Ravenspurgh.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 11)
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?   No, my good lord, for that is not forgot Which ne'er did remember.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 12)
To my knowledge never in my life did look on him.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 13)
Then learn to know him now. This is the Duke.   My gracious lord, tender you my service, Such as it is, being tender, raw, and young, Which elder days shall ripen and confirm To more approved service and desert.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 14)
thank thee, gentle Percy, and be sure count myself in nothing else so happy As in a soul rememb'ring my good friends; And as my fortune ripens with thy love, It shall be still thy true love's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 15)
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 16)
How far is it to Berkeley, and what stir Keeps good old York there with his men of war?(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 17)
There stands the castle by yon tuft of trees, Manned with three hundred men, as have heard, And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour, None else of name and noble estimate.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 18)
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby, Bloody with spurring, fiery red with haste.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 19)
Welcome, my lords. wot your love pursues banished traitor.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 20)
All my treasury Is yet but unfelt thanks, which, more enriched, Shall be your love and labor's recompense.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 21)
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.   And far surmounts our labor to attain it.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 22)
Evermore thank's the exchequer of the poor, Which, till my infant fortune comes to years, Stands for my bounty.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 23)
But who comes here?      It is my Lord of Berkeley, as guess.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 24)
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.   My lord, my answer is--to "Lancaster"; And am come to seek that name in England.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 25)
And must find that title in your tongue Before make reply to aught you say.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 26)
Mistake me not, my lord, 'tis not my meaning To rase one title of your honor out.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 27)
To you, my lord, come, what lord you will, From the most gracious regent of this land, The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on To take advantage of the absent time, And fright our native peace with self-borne arms.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 28)
shall not need transport my words by you. Here comes his Grace in person.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 29)
My noble uncle.   Show me thy humble heart and not thy knee, Whose duty is deceivable and false.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 30)
My gracious uncle--  Tut, tut! Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 31)
am no traitor's uncle, and that word "grace" In an ungracious mouth is but profane.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 32)
Why have those banished and forbidden legs Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 33)
But then, more why: why have they dared to march So many miles upon her peaceful bosom, Frighting her pale-faced villages with war And ostentation of despised arms?(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 34)
Com'st thou because the anointed king is hence? Why, foolish boy, the King is left behind And in my loyal bosom lies his power.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 35)
Were but now lord of such hot youth As when brave Gaunt thy father and myself Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men, From forth the ranks of many thousand French, then, how quickly should this arm of mine, Now prisoner to the palsy, chastise thee And minister correction to thy fault!(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 36)
My gracious uncle, let me know my fault. On what condition stands it and wherein?(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 37)
Even in condition of the worst degree, In gross rebellion and detested treason.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 38)
Thou art a banished man and here art come, Before the expiration of thy time, In braving arms against thy sovereign.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 39)
As was banished, was banished Hereford, But as come, come for Lancaster.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 40)
And, noble uncle, beseech your Grace Look on my wrongs with an indifferent eye.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 41)
You are my father, for methinks in you see old Gaunt alive.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 42)
then, my father, Will you permit that shall stand condemned wandering vagabond, my rights and royalties Plucked from my arms perforce and given away To upstart unthrifts?(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 43)
Wherefore was born? If that my cousin king be king in England, It must be granted am Duke of Lancaster.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 44)
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin. Had you first died and he been thus trod down, He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 45)
am denied to sue my livery here, And yet my letters patents give me leave.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 46)
My father's goods are all distrained and sold, And these, and all, are all amiss employed.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 47)
What would you have me do? am a subject, And challenge law.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 48)
Attorneys are denied me, And therefore personally lay my claim To my inheritance of free descent.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 49)
The noble duke hath been too much abused.   It stands your Grace upon to do him right.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 50)
Base men by his endowments are made great.   My lords of England, let me tell you this: have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs And labored all could to do him right.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 51)
But in this kind to come, in braving arms, Be his own carver and cut out his way To find out right with wrong, it may not be.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 52)
And you that do abet him in this kind Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 53)
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is But for his own, and for the right of that We all have strongly sworn to give him aid.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 54)
And let him never see joy that breaks that oath.   Well, well.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 55)
see the issue of these arms. cannot mend it, must needs confess, Because my power is weak and all ill-left.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 56)
But if could, by Him that gave me life, would attach you all and make you stoop Unto the sovereign mercy of the King.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 57)
But since cannot, be it known unto you do remain as neuter.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 58)
So fare you well-- Unless you please to enter in the castle And there repose you for this night.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 59)
An offer, uncle, that we will accept. But we must win your Grace to go with us To Bristow Castle, which they say is held By Bushy, Bagot, and their complices, The caterpillars of the commonwealth, Which have sworn to weed and pluck away.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 60)
It may be will go with you; but yet I'll pause, For am loath to break our country's laws.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 61)
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are. Things past redress are now with me past care.(Richard II, Act 2, Scene 62)
2        My Lord of Salisbury, we have stayed ten days And hardly kept our countrymen together, And yet we hear no tidings from the King.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 0)
Therefore we will disperse ourselves. Farewell.   Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 1)
The King reposeth all his confidence in thee.   'Tis thought the King is dead.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 2)
We will not stay. The bay trees in our country are all withered, And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven; The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the Earth, And lean-looked prophets whisper fearful change; Rich men look sad, and ruffians dance and leap, The one in fear to lose what they enjoy, The other to enjoy by rage and war.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 3)
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings. Farewell.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 4)
Our countrymen are gone and fled, As well assured Richard their king is dead.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 5)
Ah, Richard! With the eyes of heavy mind see thy glory like a shooting star Fall to the base earth from the firmament.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 6)
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west, Witnessing storms to come, woe, and unrest.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 7)
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes, And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.(Richard II, Act 3, Scene 8)
Lord Marquess Dorset, Rivers, Hastings, Buckingham,     Why, so.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 0)
Now have done a good day's work. You peers, continue this united league.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 1)
every day expect an embassage From my Redeemer to redeem me hence, And more in peace my soul shall part to heaven Since have made my friends at peace on Earth.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 2)
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand. Dissemble not your hatred.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 3)
Swear your love.   By heaven, my soul is purged from grudging hate, And with my hand seal my true heart's love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 4)
So thrive as truly swear the like.   Take heed you dally not before your king, Lest He that is the supreme King of kings Confound your hidden falsehood and award Either of you to be the other's end.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 5)
So prosper as swear perfect love.   And as love Hastings with my heart.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 6)
Madam, yourself is not exempt from this,-- Nor you, son Dorset,--Buckingham, nor you.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 7)
You have been factious one against the other.-- Wife, love Lord Hastings.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 8)
Let him kiss your hand, And what you do, do it unfeignedly.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 9)
There, Hastings, will never more remember Our former hatred, so thrive and mine.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 10)
Dorset, embrace him.--Hastings, love Lord Marquess.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 11)
This interchange of love, here protest, Upon my part shall be inviolable.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 12)
And so swear   Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league With thy embracements to my wife's allies And make me happy in your unity.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 13)
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate Upon your Grace, but with all duteous love Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me With hate in those where expect most love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 14)
When have most need to employ a friend, And most assured that he is a friend, Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile Be he unto me: this do beg of God, When am cold in love to you or yours.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 15)
pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham, Is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 16)
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here To make the blessed period of this peace.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 17)
And in good time Here comes Sir Richard Ratcliffe and the Duke.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 18)
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen, And, princely peers, a happy time of day.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 19)
Happy indeed, as we have spent the day. Gloucester, we have done deeds of charity, Made peace of enmity, fair love of hate, Between these swelling, wrong-incensed peers.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 20)
blessed labor, my most sovereign lord. Among this princely heap, if any here By false intelligence or wrong surmise Hold me a foe, If unwittingly, or in my rage, Have aught committed that is hardly borne By any in this presence, desire To reconcile me to his friendly peace.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 21)
'Tis death to me to be at enmity; hate it, and desire all good men's love.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 22)
First, madam, entreat true peace of you, Which will purchase with my duteous service;-- Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham, If ever any grudge were lodged between us;-- Of you and you, Lord Rivers and of Dorset, That all without desert have frowned on me;-- Of you, Lord Woodeville and Lord Scales;--of you, Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 23)
do not know that Englishman alive With whom my soul is any jot at odds More than the infant that is born tonight.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 24)
thank my God for my humility.   holy day shall this be kept hereafter.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 25)
would to God all strifes were well compounded. My sovereign lord, do beseech your Highness To take our brother Clarence to your grace.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 26)
Why, madam, have offered love for this, To be so flouted in this royal presence?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 27)
Who knows not that the gentle duke is dead?  You do him injury to scorn his corse.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 28)
Who knows not he is dead! Who knows he is?   All-seeing heaven, what a world is this!(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 29)
Look so pale, Lord Dorset, as the rest?   Ay, my good lord, and no man in the presence But his red color hath forsook his cheeks.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 30)
Is Clarence dead? The order was reversed.   But he, poor man, by your first order died, And that a winged Mercury did bear.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 31)
Some tardy cripple bare the countermand, That came too lag to see him buried.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 32)
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal, Nearer in bloody thoughts, and not in blood, Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did, And yet go current from suspicion.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 33)
boon, my sovereign, for my service done.   prithee, peace.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 34)
My soul is full of sorrow.   will not rise unless your Highness hear me.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 35)
Then say at once what is it thou requests.   The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life, Who slew today a riotous gentleman Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 36)
Have a tongue to doom my brother's death, And shall that tongue give pardon to a slave?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 37)
My brother killed no man; his fault was thought, And yet his punishment was bitter death.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 38)
Who sued to me for him? Who, in my wrath, Kneeled at my feet, and bade me be advised?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 39)
Who spoke of brotherhood? Who spoke of love? Who told me how the poor soul did forsake The mighty Warwick and did fight for me?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 40)
Who told me, in the field at Tewkesbury, When Oxford had me down, he rescued me, And said "Dear brother, live, and be a king"?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 41)
Who told me, when we both lay in the field Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me Even in his garments and did give himself, All thin and naked, to the numb-cold night?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 42)
All this from my remembrance brutish wrath Sinfully plucked, and not a man of you Had so much grace to put it in my mind.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 43)
But when your carters or your waiting vassals Have done a drunken slaughter and defaced The precious image of our dear Redeemer, You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon, And unjustly too, must grant it you.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 44)
But for my brother, not a man would speak, Nor ungracious, speak unto myself For him, poor soul.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 45)
The proudest of you all Have been beholding to him in his life, Yet none of you would once beg for his life.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 46)
God, fear Thy justice will take hold On me and you, and mine and yours for this!(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 47)
-- Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.-- Ah, poor Clarence.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 48)
This is the fruits of rashness. Marked you not How that the guilty kindred of the Queen Looked pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 49)
they did urge it still unto the King. God will revenge it.(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 50)
Come, lords, will you go To comfort Edward with our company?(Richard III, Act 0, Scene 51)
Good grandam, tell us, is our father dead?  No, boy.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 0)
Why do you weep so oft, and beat your breast, And cry Clarence, my unhappy son"?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 1)
Why do you look on us and shake your head, And call us orphans, wretches, castaways, If that our noble father were alive?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 2)
My pretty cousins, you mistake me both. do lament the sickness of the King, As loath to lose him, not your father's death.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 3)
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.   Then, you conclude, my grandam, he is dead.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 4)
The King mine uncle is to blame for it. God will revenge it, whom will importune With earnest prayers, all to that effect.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 5)
And so will   Peace, children, peace. The King doth love you well.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 6)
Incapable and shallow innocents, You cannot guess who caused your father's death.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 7)
Grandam, we can, for my good uncle Gloucester Told me the King, provoked to it by the Queen, Devised impeachments to imprison him; And when my uncle told me so, he wept, And pitied me, and kindly kissed my cheek, Bade me rely on him as on my father, And he would love me dearly as a child.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 8)
Ah, that deceit should steal such gentle shape, And with a virtuous visor hide deep vice.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 9)
He is my son, ay, and therein my shame, Yet from my dugs he drew not this deceit.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 10)
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?  Ay, boy.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 11)
cannot think it. Hark, what noise is this?       Ah, who shall hinder me to wail and weep, To chide my fortune and torment myself?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 12)
I'll join with black despair against my soul And to myself become an enemy.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 13)
What means this scene of rude impatience?   To make an act of tragic violence.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 14)
Edward, my lord, thy son, our king, is dead. Why grow the branches when the root is gone?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 15)
Why wither not the leaves that want their sap? If you will live, lament.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 16)
If die, be brief, That our swift-winged souls may catch the King's, Or, like obedient subjects, follow him To his new kingdom of ne'er-changing night.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 17)
Ah, so much interest have in thy sorrow As had title in thy noble husband.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 18)
have bewept a worthy husband's death And lived with looking on his images; But now two mirrors of his princely semblance Are cracked in pieces by malignant death, And for comfort, have but one false glass That grieves me when see my shame in him.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 19)
Thou art a widow, yet thou art a mother, And hast the comfort of thy children left, But death hath snatched my husband from mine arms And plucked two crutches from my feeble hands, Clarence and Edward.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 20)
what cause have Thine being but a moiety of my moan, To overgo thy woes and drown thy cries!(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 21)
Ah, aunt, you wept not for our father's death. How can we aid you with our kindred tears?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 22)
Our fatherless distress was left unmoaned. Your widow-dolor likewise be unwept!(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 23)
Give me no help in lamentation. am not barren to bring forth complaints.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 24)
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes, That being governed by the watery moon, May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 25)
Ah, for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!   Ah, for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 26)
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!   What stay had but Edward?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 27)
And he's gone.   What stay had we but Clarence? And he's gone.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 28)
What stays had but they? And they are gone.   Was never widow had so dear a loss.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 29)
Were never orphans had so dear a loss.   Was never mother had so dear a loss.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 30)
Alas, am the mother of these griefs. Their woes are parceled; mine is general.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 31)
She for an Edward weeps, and so do for a Clarence weep; so doth not she.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 32)
These babes for Clarence weep, and so do for an Edward weep; so do not they.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 33)
Alas, you three, on me, threefold distressed, Pour all your tears.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 34)
am your sorrow's nurse, And will pamper it with lamentation.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 35)
Comfort, dear mother. God is much displeased That you take with unthankfulness His doing.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 36)
In common worldly things, 'tis called ungrateful With dull unwillingness to repay a debt Which with a bounteous hand was kindly lent; Much more to be thus opposite with heaven, For it requires the royal debt it lent you.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 37)
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother, Of the young prince your son.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 38)
Send straight for him. Let him be crowned. In him your comfort lives.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 39)
Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 40)
Sister, have comfort. All of us have cause To wail the dimming of our shining star, But none can help our harms by wailing them.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 41)
-- Madam my mother, do cry you mercy; did not see your Grace.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 42)
Humbly on my knee crave your blessing.   God bless thee, and put meekness in thy breast, Love, charity, obedience, and true duty.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 43)
Amen.  And make me die a good old man! That is the butt end of a mother's blessing; marvel that her Grace did leave it out.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 44)
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers That bear this heavy mutual load of moan, Now cheer each other in each other's love.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 45)
Though we have spent our harvest of this king, We are to reap the harvest of his son.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 46)
The broken rancor of your high-swoll'n hates, But lately splintered, knit, and joined together, Must gently be preserved, cherished, and kept.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 47)
Meseemeth good that with some little train Forthwith from Ludlow the young prince be fet Hither to London, to be crowned our king.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 48)
Why "with some little train," my lord of Buckingham?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 49)
Marry, my lord, lest by a multitude The new-healed wound of malice should break out, Which would be so much the more dangerous By how much the estate is green and yet ungoverned.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 50)
Where every horse bears his commanding rein And may direct his course as please himself, As well the fear of harm as harm apparent, In my opinion, ought to be prevented.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 51)
hope the King made peace with all of us; And the compact is firm and true in me.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 52)
And so in me, and so, think, in all. Yet since it is but green, it should be put To no apparent likelihood of breach, Which haply by much company might be urged.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 53)
Therefore say with noble Buckingham That it is meet so few should fetch the Prince.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 54)
And so say   Then be it so, and go we to determine Who they shall be that straight shall post to Ludlow.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 55)
-- Madam, and you, my sister, will you go To give your censures in this business?(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 56)
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince, For God's sake let not us two stay at home.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 57)
For by the way I'll sort occasion, As index to the story we late talked of, To part the Queen's proud kindred from the Prince.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 58)
My other self, my council's consistory, My oracle, my prophet, my dear cousin, as a child, will go by thy direction.(Richard III, Act 1, Scene 59)
Good morrow, neighbor, whither away so fast?   promise you scarcely know myself.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 0)
Hear you the news abroad?  Yes, that the King is dead.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 1)
Ill news, by 'r Lady. Seldom comes the better. fear, fear, 'twill prove a giddy world.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 2)
Neighbors, God speed.  Give you good morrow, sir.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 3)
Doth the news hold of good King Edward's death?(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 4)
Ay, sir, it is too true, God help the while.   Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 5)
No, no, by God's good grace, his son shall reign.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 6)
Woe to that land that's governed by a child.   In him there is a hope of government, Which, in his nonage, council under him, And, in his full and ripened years, himself, No doubt shall then, and till then, govern well.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 7)
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth Was crowned in Paris but at nine months old.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 8)
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot, For then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel; then the King Had virtuous uncles to protect his Grace.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 9)
Why, so hath this, both by his father and mother.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 10)
Better it were they all came by his father, Or by his father there were none at all, For emulation who shall now be nearest Will touch us all too near if God prevent not.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 11)
full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester, And the Queen's sons and brothers haught and proud, And were they to be ruled, and not to rule, This sickly land might solace as before.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 12)
Come, come, we fear the worst. All will be well.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 13)
When clouds are seen, wise men put on their cloaks; When great leaves fall, then winter is at hand; When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 14)
Untimely storms makes men expect a dearth. All may be well; but if God sort it so, 'Tis more than we deserve or expect.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 15)
Truly, the hearts of men are full of fear. You cannot reason almost with a man That looks not heavily and full of dread.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 16)
Before the days of change, still is it so. By a divine instinct, men's minds mistrust Ensuing danger, as by proof we see The water swell before a boist'rous storm.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 17)
But leave it all to God. Whither away?   Marry, we were sent for to the Justices.(Richard III, Act 2, Scene 18)
2         Last night, hear, they lay at Stony Stratford, And at Northampton they do rest tonight.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 0)
Tomorrow or next day they will be here.   long with all my heart to see the Prince.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 1)
hope he is much grown since last saw him.   But hear no; they say my son of York Has almost overta'en him in his growth.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 2)
Ay, mother, but would not have it so.   Why, my good cousin?(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 3)
It is good to grow.   Grandam, one night as we did sit at supper, My uncle Rivers talked how did grow More than my brother.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 4)
"Ay," quoth my uncle Gloucester, "Small herbs have grace; great weeds do grow apace.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 5)
" And since, methinks would not grow so fast Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 6)
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold In him that did object the same to thee!(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 7)
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young, So long a-growing and so leisurely, That if his rule were true, he should be gracious.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 8)
And so no doubt he is, my gracious madam.   hope he is, but yet let mothers doubt.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 9)
Now, by my troth, if had been remembered, could have given my uncle's Grace a flout To touch his growth nearer than he touched mine.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 10)
How, my young York? prithee let me hear it.   Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 11)
'Twas full two years ere could get a tooth. Grandam, this would have been a biting jest.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 12)
prithee, pretty York, who told thee this?  Grandam, his nurse.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 13)
His nurse? Why, she was dead ere thou wast born.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 14)
If 'twere not she, cannot tell who told me.   parlous boy!(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 15)
Go to, you are too shrewd.   Good madam, be not angry with the child.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 16)
Pitchers have ears.     Here comes a messenger.--What news?(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 17)
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to report.  How doth the Prince?(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 18)
Well, madam, and in health.  What is thy news?   Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret, And, with them, Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 19)
Who hath committed them?   The mighty dukes, Gloucester and Buckingham.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 20)
For what offense?   The sum of all can, have disclosed.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 21)
Why, or for what, the nobles were committed Is all unknown to me, my gracious lord.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 22)
Ay me! see the ruin of my house. The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 23)
Insulting tyranny begins to jut Upon the innocent and aweless throne.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 24)
Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre. see, as in a map, the end of all.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 25)
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days, How many of you have mine eyes beheld?(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 26)
My husband lost his life to get the crown, And often up and down my sons were tossed For me to joy, and weep, their gain and loss.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 27)
And being seated, and domestic broils Clean overblown, themselves the conquerors Make war upon themselves, brother to brother, Blood to blood, self against self.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 28)
preposterous And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen, Or let me die, to look on Earth no more.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 29)
Come, come, my boy. We will to sanctuary.-- Madam, farewell.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 30)
Stay, will go with you.   You have no cause.  My gracious lady, go, And thither bear your treasure and your goods.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 31)
For my part, I'll resign unto your Grace The seal keep; and so betide to me As well tender you and all of yours.(Richard III, Act 3, Scene 32)
Can go forward when my heart is here? Turn back, dull earth, and find thy center out.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 0)
Romeo, my cousin Romeo, Romeo!  He is wise And, on my life, hath stol'n him home to bed.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 1)
He ran this way and leapt this orchard wall. Call, good Mercutio.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 2)
Nay, I'll conjure too. Romeo! Humors! Madman! Passion!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 3)
Lover! Appear thou in the likeness of a sigh. Speak but one rhyme and am satisfied.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 4)
Cry but "Ay me," pronounce but "love" and "dove." Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word, One nickname for her purblind son and heir, Young Abraham Cupid, he that shot so trim When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 5)
-- He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 6)
The ape is dead, and must conjure him.-- conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes, By her high forehead, and her scarlet lip, By her fine foot, straight leg, and quivering thigh, And the demesnes that there adjacent lie, That in thy likeness thou appear to us.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 7)
An if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.   This cannot anger him.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 8)
'Twould anger him To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle Of some strange nature, letting it there stand Till she had laid it and conjured it down.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 9)
That were some spite. My invocation Is fair and honest.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 10)
In his mistress' name, conjure only but to raise up him.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 11)
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees To be consorted with the humorous night.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 12)
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.   If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 13)
Now will he sit under a medlar tree And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit As maids call medlars when they laugh alone.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 14)
-- Romeo, that she were, that she were An open-arse, thou a pop'rin pear.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 15)
Romeo, good night. I'll to my truckle bed; This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 16)
-- Come, shall we go?  Go, then, for 'tis in vain To seek him here that means not to be found.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 0, Scene 17)
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.    But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 0)
It is the East, and Juliet is the sun. Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, Who is already sick and pale with grief That thou, her maid, art far more fair than she.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 1)
Be not her maid since she is envious. Her vestal livery is but sick and green, And none but fools do wear it.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 2)
Cast it off. It is my lady. it is my love! that she knew she were!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 3)
She speaks, yet she says nothing. What of that? Her eye discourses; will answer it.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 4)
am too bold. 'Tis not to me she speaks. Two of the fairest stars in all the heaven, Having some business, do entreat her eyes To twinkle in their spheres till they return.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 5)
What if her eyes were there, they in her head? The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars As daylight doth a lamp; her eye in heaven Would through the airy region stream so bright That birds would sing and think it were not night.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 6)
See how she leans her cheek upon her hand. that were a glove upon that hand, That might touch that cheek!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 7)
Ay me.  She speaks. speak again, bright angel, for thou art As glorious to this night, being o'er my head, As is a winged messenger of heaven Unto the white-upturned wond'ring eyes Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him When he bestrides the lazy puffing clouds And sails upon the bosom of the air.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 8)
Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo? Deny thy father and refuse thy name, Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love, And I'll no longer be a Capulet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 9)
Shall hear more, or shall speak at this?   'Tis but thy name that is my enemy.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 10)
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague. What's Montague?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 11)
It is nor hand, nor foot, Nor arm, nor face. be some other name Belonging to a man.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 12)
What's in a name? That which we call a rose By any other word would smell as sweet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 13)
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo called, Retain that dear perfection which he owes Without that title.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 14)
Romeo, doff thy name, And, for thy name, which is no part of thee, Take all myself.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 15)
take thee at thy word. Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 16)
Henceforth never will be Romeo.   What man art thou that, thus bescreened in night, So stumblest on my counsel?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 17)
By a name know not how to tell thee who am. My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself Because it is an enemy to thee.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 18)
Had it written, would tear the word.   My ears have yet not drunk a hundred words Of thy tongue's uttering, yet know the sound.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 19)
Art thou not Romeo, and a Montague?   Neither, fair maid, if either thee dislike.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 20)
How camest thou hither, tell me, and wherefore?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 21)
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb, And the place death, considering who thou art, If any of my kinsmen find thee here.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 22)
With love's light wings did o'erperch these walls, For stony limits cannot hold love out, And what love can do, that dares love attempt.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 23)
Therefore thy kinsmen are no stop to me.   If they do see thee, they will murder thee.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 24)
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye Than twenty of their swords.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 25)
Look thou but sweet, And am proof against their enmity.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 26)
would not for the world they saw thee here.   have night's cloak to hide me from their eyes, And, but thou love me, let them find me here.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 27)
My life were better ended by their hate Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 28)
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 29)
By love, that first did prompt me to inquire. He lent me counsel, and lent him eyes.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 30)
am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far As that vast shore washed with the farthest sea, should adventure for such merchandise.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 31)
Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face, Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek For that which thou hast heard me speak tonight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 32)
Fain would dwell on form; fain, fain deny What have spoke.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 33)
But farewell compliment. Dost thou love me? know thou wilt say "Ay," And will take thy word.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 34)
Yet, if thou swear'st, Thou mayst prove false. At lovers' perjuries, They say, Jove laughs.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 35)
gentle Romeo, If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 36)
Or, if thou thinkest am too quickly won, I'll frown and be perverse and say thee nay, So thou wilt woo, but else not for the world.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 37)
In truth, fair Montague, am too fond, And therefore thou mayst think my havior light.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 38)
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true Than those that have more coying to be strange.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 39)
should have been more strange, must confess, But that thou overheard'st ere was ware My true-love passion.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 40)
Therefore pardon me, And not impute this yielding to light love, Which the dark night hath so discovered.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 41)
Lady, by yonder blessed moon vow, That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--   swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon, That monthly changes in her circled orb, Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 42)
What shall swear by?  Do not swear at all. Or, if thou wilt, swear by thy gracious self, Which is the god of my idolatry, And I'll believe thee.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 43)
If my heart's dear love--   Well, do not swear. Although joy in thee, have no joy of this contract tonight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 44)
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden, Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be Ere one can say "It lightens.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 45)
" Sweet, good night. This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath, May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 46)
Good night, good night. As sweet repose and rest Come to thy heart as that within my breast.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 47)
wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?   What satisfaction canst thou have tonight?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 48)
Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 49)
gave thee mine before thou didst request it, And yet would it were to give again.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 50)
Wouldst thou withdraw it? For what purpose, love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 51)
But to be frank and give it thee again. And yet wish but for the thing have.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 52)
My bounty is as boundless as the sea, My love as deep.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 53)
The more give to thee, The more have, for both are infinite.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 54)
hear some noise within. Dear love, adieu.-- Anon, good nurse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 55)
--Sweet Montague, be true. Stay but a little; will come again.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 56)
blessed, blessed night! am afeard, Being in night, all this is but a dream, Too flattering sweet to be substantial.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 57)
Three words, dear Romeo, and good night indeed.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 58)
If that thy bent of love be honorable, Thy purpose marriage, send me word tomorrow, By one that I'll procure to come to thee, Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite, And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay And follow thee my lord throughout the world.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 59)
Madam.   come anon.--But if thou meanest not well, do beseech thee--  Madam.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 60)
By and by, come.-- To cease thy strife and leave me to my grief.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 61)
Tomorrow will send.  So thrive my soul--  thousand times good night.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 62)
thousand times the worse to want thy light. Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books, But love from love, toward school with heavy looks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 63)
Hist, Romeo, hist! for a falc'ner's voice To lure this tassel-gentle back again!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 64)
Bondage is hoarse and may not speak aloud, Else would tear the cave where Echo lies And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine With repetition of "My Romeo!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 65)
"   It is my soul that calls upon my name. How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night, Like softest music to attending ears.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 66)
Romeo.  My dear.  What o'clock tomorrow Shall send to thee?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 67)
By the hour of nine.   will not fail. 'Tis twenty year till then.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 68)
have forgot why did call thee back.   Let me stand here till thou remember it.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 69)
shall forget, to have thee still stand there, Rememb'ring how love thy company.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 70)
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget, Forgetting any other home but this.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 71)
'Tis almost morning. would have thee gone, And yet no farther than a wanton's bird, That lets it hop a little from his hand, Like a poor prisoner in his twisted gyves, And with a silken thread plucks it back again, So loving-jealous of his liberty.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 72)
would were thy bird.  Sweet, so would Yet should kill thee with much cherishing.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 73)
Good night, good night. Parting is such sweet sorrow That shall say "Good night" till it be morrow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 74)
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 75)
Would were sleep and peace so sweet to rest. Hence will to my ghostly friar's close cell, His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 1, Scene 76)
The gray-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night, Check'ring the eastern clouds with streaks of light, And fleckled darkness like a drunkard reels From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 0)
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye, The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry, must upfill this osier cage of ours With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 1)
The Earth that's nature's mother is her tomb; What is her burying grave, that is her womb; And from her womb children of divers kind We sucking on her natural bosom find, Many for many virtues excellent, None but for some, and yet all different.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 2)
mickle is the powerful grace that lies In plants, herbs, stones, and their true qualities.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 3)
For naught so vile that on the Earth doth live But to the Earth some special good doth give; Nor aught so good but, strained from that fair use, Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 4)
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied, And vice sometime by action dignified.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 5)
Within the infant rind of this weak flower Poison hath residence and medicine power: For this, being smelt, with that part cheers each part; Being tasted, stays all senses with the heart.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 6)
Two such opposed kings encamp them still In man as well as herbs--grace and rude will; And where the worser is predominant, Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 7)
Good morrow, father.  Benedicite. What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 8)
Young son, it argues a distempered head So soon to bid "Good morrow" to thy bed.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 9)
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye, And, where care lodges, sleep will never lie; But where unbruised youth with unstuffed brain Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 10)
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure Thou art uproused with some distemp'rature, Or, if not so, then here hit it right: Our Romeo hath not been in bed tonight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 11)
That last is true. The sweeter rest was mine.   God pardon sin!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 12)
Wast thou with Rosaline?   With Rosaline, my ghostly father?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 13)
No. have forgot that name and that name's woe.   That's my good son.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 14)
But where hast thou been then?   I'll tell thee ere thou ask it me again.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 15)
have been feasting with mine enemy, Where on a sudden one hath wounded me That's by me wounded.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 16)
Both our remedies Within thy help and holy physic lies.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 17)
bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo, My intercession likewise steads my foe.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 18)
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift. Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 19)
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set On the fair daughter of rich Capulet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 20)
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine, And all combined, save what thou must combine By holy marriage.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 21)
When and where and how We met, we wooed, and made exchange of vow I'll tell thee as we pass, but this pray, That thou consent to marry us today.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 22)
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here! Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear, So soon forsaken?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 23)
Young men's love then lies Not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 24)
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine Hath washed thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 25)
How much salt water thrown away in waste To season love, that of it doth not taste!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 26)
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears, Thy old groans yet ringing in mine ancient ears.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 27)
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit Of an old tear that is not washed off yet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 28)
If e'er thou wast thyself, and these woes thine, Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 29)
And art thou changed? Pronounce this sentence then: Women may fall when there's no strength in men.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 30)
Thou chid'st me oft for loving Rosaline.   For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 31)
And bad'st me bury love.  Not in a grave To lay one in, another out to have.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 32)
pray thee, chide me not. Her love now Doth grace for grace and love for love allow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 33)
The other did not so.  she knew well Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 34)
But come, young waverer, come, go with me. In one respect I'll thy assistant be, For this alliance may so happy prove To turn your households' rancor to pure love.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 35)
let us hence. stand on sudden haste.   Wisely and slow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 2, Scene 36)
Where the devil should this Romeo be? Came he not home tonight?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 0)
Not to his father's. spoke with his man.   Why, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline, Torments him so that he will sure run mad.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 1)
Tybalt, the kinsman to old Capulet, Hath sent a letter to his father's house.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 2)
challenge, on my life.  Romeo will answer it.  Any man that can write may answer a letter.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 3)
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he dares, being dared.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 4)
Alas, poor Romeo, he is already dead, stabbed with a white wench's black eye, run through the ear with a love-song, the very pin of his heart cleft with the blind bow-boy's butt shaft.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 5)
And is he a man to encounter Tybalt?  Why, what is Tybalt?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 6)
More than prince of cats. he's the courageous captain of compliments.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 7)
He fights as you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and proportion.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 8)
He rests his minim rests, one, two, and the third in your bosom--the very butcher of a silk button, a duelist, a duelist, a gentleman of the very first house of the first and second cause.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 9)
Ah, the immortal passado, the punto reverso, the hay!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 10)
The what?  The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting phantasimes, these new tuners of accent: "By Jesu, a very good blade!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 11)
very tall man! very good whore!" Why, is not this a lamentable thing, grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with these strange flies, these fashion-mongers, these "pardon-me" 's, who stand so much on the new form that they cannot sit at ease on the old bench?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 12)
their bones, their bones!     Here comes Romeo, here comes Romeo.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 13)
Without his roe, like a dried herring. flesh, flesh, how art thou fishified!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 14)
Now is he for the numbers that Petrarch flowed in.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 15)
Laura to his lady was a kitchen wench (marry, she had a better love to berhyme her), Dido a dowdy, Cleopatra a gypsy, Helen and Hero hildings and harlots, Thisbe a gray eye or so, but not to the purpose.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 16)
--Signior Romeo, bonjour. There's a French salutation to your French slop.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 17)
You gave us the counterfeit fairly last night.  Good morrow to you both.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 18)
What counterfeit did give you?  The slip, sir, the slip.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 19)
Can you not conceive?  Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great, and in such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 20)
That's as much as to say such a case as yours constrains a man to bow in the hams.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 21)
Meaning, to curtsy.  Thou hast most kindly hit it.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 22)
most courteous exposition.  Nay, am the very pink of courtesy.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 23)
"Pink" for flower.  Right.  Why, then is my pump well flowered.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 24)
Sure wit, follow me this jest now till thou hast worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it is worn, the jest may remain, after the wearing, solely singular.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 25)
single-soled jest, solely singular for the singleness.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 26)
Come between us, good Benvolio. My wits faints.  Switch and spurs, switch and spurs, or I'll cry a match.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 27)
Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, am done, for thou hast more of the wild goose in one of thy wits than, am sure, have in my whole five.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 28)
Was with you there for the goose?  Thou wast never with me for anything when thou wast not there for the goose.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 29)
will bite thee by the ear for that jest.  Nay, good goose, bite not.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 30)
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most sharp sauce.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 31)
And is it not, then, well served into a sweet goose?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 32)
here's a wit of cheveril that stretches from an inch narrow to an ell broad.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 33)
stretch it out for that word "broad," which added to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 34)
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 35)
Now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo, now art thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 36)
For this driveling love is like a great natural that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 37)
Stop there, stop there.  Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 38)
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.  thou art deceived.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 39)
would have made it short, for was come to the whole depth of my tale and meant indeed to occupy the argument no longer.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 40)
Here's goodly gear. sail, a sail!  Two, two--a shirt and a smock.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 41)
Peter.  Anon.  My fan, Peter.  Good Peter, to hide her face, for her fan's the fairer face.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 42)
God you good morrow, gentlemen.  God you good e'en, fair gentlewoman.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 43)
Is it good e'en?  'Tis no less, tell you, for the bawdy hand of the dial is now upon the prick of noon.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 44)
Out upon you! What a man are you?  One, gentlewoman, that God hath made, himself to mar.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 45)
By my troth, it is well said: "for himself to mar," quoth he?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 46)
Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where may find the young Romeo?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 47)
can tell you, but young Romeo will be older when you have found him than he was when you sought him.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 48)
am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 49)
You say well.  Yea, is the worst well? Very well took, i' faith, wisely, wisely.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 50)
If you be he, sir, desire some confidence with you.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 51)
She will indite him to some supper.  bawd, a bawd, a bawd.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 52)
So ho!  What hast thou found?  No hare, sir, unless a hare, sir, in a Lenten pie that is something stale and hoar ere it be spent.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 53)
An old hare hoar, And an old hare hoar, Is very good meat in Lent.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 54)
But a hare that is hoar Is too much for a score When it hoars ere it be spent.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 55)
Romeo, will you come to your father's? We'll to dinner thither.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 56)
will follow you.  Farewell, ancient lady. Farewell, lady, lady, lady.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 57)
pray you, sir, what saucy merchant was this that was so full of his ropery?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 58)
gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk and will speak more in a minute than he will stand to in a month.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 59)
An he speak anything against me, I'll take him down, an he were lustier than he is, and twenty such jacks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 60)
An if cannot, I'll find those that shall. Scurvy knave, am none of his flirt-gills; am none of his skains-mates.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 61)
And thou must stand by too and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 62)
saw no man use you at his pleasure. If had, my weapon should quickly have been out.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 63)
warrant you, dare draw as soon as another man, if see occasion in a good quarrel, and the law on my side.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 64)
Now, afore God, am so vexed that every part about me quivers.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 65)
Scurvy knave!  Pray you, sir, a word. And, as told you, my young lady bid me inquire you out.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 66)
What she bid me say, will keep to myself. But first let me tell you, if you should lead her in a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross kind of behavior, as they say.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 67)
For the gentlewoman is young; and therefore, if you should deal double with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 68)
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. protest unto thee--  Good heart, and i' faith will tell her as much.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 69)
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.  What wilt thou tell her, nurse?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 70)
Thou dost not mark me.  will tell her, sir, that you do protest, which, as take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 71)
Bid her devise Some means to come to shrift this afternoon, And there she shall at Friar Lawrence' cell Be shrived and married.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 72)
Here is for thy pains.   No, truly, sir, not a penny.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 73)
Go to, say you shall.   This afternoon, sir? Well, she shall be there.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 74)
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall. Within this hour my man shall be with thee And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair, Which to the high topgallant of my joy Must be my convoy in the secret night.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 75)
Farewell. Be trusty, and I'll quit thy pains. Farewell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 76)
Commend me to thy mistress.   Now, God in heaven bless thee!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 77)
Hark you, sir.  What sayst thou, my dear nurse?   Is your man secret?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 78)
Did you ne'er hear say "Two may keep counsel, putting one away"?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 79)
Warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.  Well, sir, my mistress is the sweetest lady.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 80)
Lord, Lord, when 'twas a little prating thing--O, there is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain lay knife aboard, but she, good soul, had as lief see a toad, a very toad, as see him.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 81)
anger her sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer man, but I'll warrant you, when say so, she looks as pale as any clout in the versal world.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 82)
Doth not rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 83)
Ay, nurse, what of that? Both with an  Ah, mocker, that's the dog's name.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 84)
is for the--No, know it begins with some other letter, and she hath the prettiest sententious of it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good to hear it.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 85)
Commend me to thy lady.  Ay, a thousand times.--Peter.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 3, Scene 86)
2        Now old desire doth in his deathbed lie, And young affection gapes to be his heir.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 0)
That fair for which love groaned for and would die, With tender Juliet matched, is now not fair.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 1)
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again, Alike bewitched by the charm of looks, But to his foe supposed he must complain, And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 2)
Being held a foe, he may not have access To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear, And she as much in love, her means much less To meet her new beloved anywhere.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 3)
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet, Temp'ring extremities with extreme sweet.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 4)
The clock struck nine when did send the Nurse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 5)
In half an hour she promised to return. Perchance she cannot meet him.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 6)
That's not so. she is lame! Love's heralds should be thoughts, Which ten times faster glides than the sun's beams, Driving back shadows over louring hills.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 7)
Therefore do nimble-pinioned doves draw Love, And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 8)
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve Is three long hours, yet she is not come.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 9)
Had she affections and warm youthful blood, She would be as swift in motion as a ball; My words would bandy her to my sweet love, And his to me.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 10)
But old folks, many feign as they were dead, Unwieldy, slow, heavy, and pale as lead.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 11)
God, she comes!--O, honey nurse, what news? Hast thou met with him?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 12)
Send thy man away.  Peter, stay at the gate.   Now, good sweet nurse--O Lord, why lookest thou sad?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 13)
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily. If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news By playing it to me with so sour a face.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 14)
am aweary. Give me leave awhile. Fie, how my bones ache!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 15)
What a jaunt have   would thou hadst my bones, and thy news.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 16)
Nay, come, pray thee, speak. Good, good nurse, speak.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 17)
Jesu, what haste! Can you not stay awhile? Do you not see that am out of breath?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 18)
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath To say to me that thou art out of breath?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 19)
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 20)
Is thy news good or bad? Answer to that. Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 21)
Let me be satisfied; is 't good or bad?  Well, you have made a simple choice.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 22)
You know not how to choose a man. Romeo? No, not he.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 23)
Though his face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels all men's, and for a hand and a foot and a body, though they be not to be talked on, yet they are past compare.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 24)
He is not the flower of courtesy, but I'll warrant him as gentle as a lamb.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 25)
Go thy ways, wench. Serve God. What, have you dined at home?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 26)
No, no. But all this did know before. What says he of our marriage?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 27)
What of that?   Lord, how my head aches! What a head have It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 28)
My back o' t' other side! Ah, my back, my back! Beshrew your heart for sending me about To catch my death with jaunting up and down.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 29)
faith, am sorry that thou art not well. Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 30)
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous, and a kind, and a handsome, and, warrant, a virtuous--Where is your mother?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 31)
Where is my mother? Why, she is within. Where should she be?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 32)
How oddly thou repliest: "Your love says, like an honest gentleman, Where is your mother?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 33)
"  God's lady dear, Are you so hot? Marry, come up, trow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 34)
Is this the poultice for my aching bones? Henceforward do your messages yourself.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 35)
Here's such a coil. Come, what says Romeo?   Have you got leave to go to shrift today?(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 36)
have.   Then hie you hence to Friar Lawrence' cell.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 37)
There stays a husband to make you a wife. Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks; They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 38)
Hie you to church. must another way, To fetch a ladder by the which your love Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 39)
am the drudge and toil in your delight, But you shall bear the burden soon at night.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 40)
Go. I'll to dinner. Hie you to the cell.   Hie to high fortune!(Romeo and Juliet, Act 4, Scene 41)
So smile the heavens upon this holy act That after-hours with sorrow chide us not.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 0)
Amen, amen. But come what sorrow can, It cannot countervail the exchange of joy That one short minute gives me in her sight.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 1)
Do thou but close our hands with holy words, Then love-devouring death do what he dare, It is enough may but call her mine.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 2)
These violent delights have violent ends And in their triumph die, like fire and powder, Which, as they kiss, consume.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 3)
The sweetest honey Is loathsome in his own deliciousness And in the taste confounds the appetite.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 4)
Therefore love moderately. Long love doth so. Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 5)
Here comes the lady. so light a foot Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 6)
lover may bestride the gossamers That idles in the wanton summer air, And yet not fall, so light is vanity.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 7)
Good even to my ghostly confessor.   Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 8)
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.   Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy Be heaped like mine, and that thy skill be more To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath This neighbor air, and let rich music's tongue Unfold the imagined happiness that both Receive in either by this dear encounter.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 9)
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance, not of ornament.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 10)
They are but beggars that can count their worth, But my true love is grown to such excess cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 11)
Come, come with me, and we will make short work, For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone Till Holy Church incorporate two in one.(Romeo and Juliet, Act 5, Scene 12)
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself, To make a bondmaid and a slave of me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 0)
That disdain. But for these other goods-- Unbind my hands, I'll pull them off myself, Yea, all my raiment to my petticoat, Or what you will command me will do, So well know my duty to my elders.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 1)
Of all thy suitors here charge thee tell Whom thou lov'st best.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 2)
See thou dissemble not.   Believe me, sister, of all the men alive never yet beheld that special face Which could fancy more than any other.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 3)
Minion, thou liest. Is 't not Hortensio?   If you affect him, sister, here swear I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have him.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 4)
then belike you fancy riches more. You will have Gremio to keep you fair.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 5)
Is it for him you do envy me so? Nay, then, you jest, and now well perceive You have but jested with me all this while.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 6)
prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.    If that be jest, then all the rest was so.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 7)
Why, how now, dame, whence grows this insolence?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 8)
-- Bianca, stand aside.--Poor girl, she weeps!  Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 9)
For shame, thou hilding of a devilish spirit! Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 10)
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?   Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 11)
What, in my sight?--Bianca, get thee in.    What, will you not suffer me?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 12)
Nay, now see She is your treasure, she must have a husband, must dance barefoot on her wedding day And, for your love to her, lead apes in hell.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 13)
Talk not to me. will go sit and weep Till can find occasion of revenge.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 14)
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as But who comes here?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 15)
in the habit of a mean man; Petruchio with Hortensio disguised as Litio; and Tranio disguised as Lucentio, with his boy, Biondello bearing a lute    Good morrow, neighbor Baptista.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 16)
Good morrow, neighbor Gremio.--God save you, gentlemen.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 17)
And you, good sir. Pray, have you not a daughter Called Katherina, fair and virtuous?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 18)
have a daughter, sir, called Katherina.   You are too blunt.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 19)
Go to it orderly.   You wrong me, Signior Gremio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 20)
Give me leave.-- am a gentleman of Verona, sir, That hearing of her beauty and her wit, Her affability and bashful modesty, Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior, Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house, to make mine eye the witness Of that report which so oft have heard, And, for an entrance to my entertainment, do present you with a man of mine,  Cunning in music and the mathematics, To instruct her fully in those sciences, Whereof know she is not ignorant.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 21)
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong. His name is Litio, born in Mantua.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 22)
You're welcome, sir, and he for your good sake.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 23)
But for my daughter Katherine, this know, She is not for your turn, the more my grief.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 24)
see you do not mean to part with her, Or else you like not of my company.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 25)
Mistake me not. speak but as find. Whence are you, sir?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 26)
What may call your name?   Petruchio is my name, Antonio's son, man well known throughout all Italy.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 27)
know him well. You are welcome for his sake.   Saving your tale, Petruchio, pray Let us that are poor petitioners speak too!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 28)
Bacare, you are marvelous forward.   pardon me, Signior Gremio, would fain be doing.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 29)
doubt it not, sir. But you will curse your wooing.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 30)
Neighbor, this is a gift very grateful, am sure of it.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 31)
To express the like kindness, myself, that have been more kindly beholding to you than any, freely give unto you this young scholar that hath been long studying at Rheims, as cunning in Greek, Latin, and other languages as the other in music and mathematics.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 32)
His name is Cambio. Pray accept his service.  thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 33)
--Welcome, good Cambio.  But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 34)
May be so bold to know the cause of your coming?   Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own, That being a stranger in this city here Do make myself a suitor to your daughter, Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 35)
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me, In the preferment of the eldest sister.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 36)
This liberty is all that request, That, upon knowledge of my parentage, may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo And free access and favor as the rest.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 37)
And toward the education of your daughters here bestow a simple instrument And this small packet of Greek and Latin books.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 38)
If you accept them, then their worth is great.   Lucentio is your name.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 39)
Of whence, pray?   Of Pisa, sir, son to Vincentio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 40)
mighty man of Pisa. By report know him well. You are very welcome, sir.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 41)
Take you the lute, and you the set of books. You shall go see your pupils presently.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 42)
Holla, within!    Sirrah, lead these gentlemen To my daughters, and tell them both These are their tutors.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 43)
Bid them use them well.  We will go walk a little in the orchard, And then to dinner.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 44)
You are passing welcome, And so pray you all to think yourselves.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 45)
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste, And every day cannot come to woo.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 46)
You knew my father well, and in him me, Left solely heir to all his lands and goods, Which have bettered rather than decreased.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 47)
Then tell me, if get your daughter's love, What dowry shall have with her to wife?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 48)
After my death, the one half of my lands, And, in possession, twenty thousand crowns.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 49)
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of Her widowhood, be it that she survive me, In all my lands and leases whatsoever.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 50)
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us, That covenants may be kept on either hand.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 51)
Ay, when the special thing is well obtained, That is, her love, for that is all in all.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 52)
Why, that is nothing. For tell you, father, am as peremptory as she proud-minded; And where two raging fires meet together, They do consume the thing that feeds their fury.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 53)
Though little fire grows great with little wind, Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 54)
So to her and so she yields to me, For am rough and woo not like a babe.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 55)
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed. But be thou armed for some unhappy words.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 56)
Ay, to the proof, as mountains are for winds, That shakes not, though they blow perpetually.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 57)
How now, my friend, why dost thou look so pale?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 58)
For fear, promise you, if look pale.   What, will my daughter prove a good musician?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 59)
think she'll sooner prove a soldier! Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 60)
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 61)
Why, no, for she hath broke the lute to me. did but tell her she mistook her frets, And bowed her hand to teach her fingering, When, with a most impatient devilish spirit, " 'Frets' call you these?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 62)
" quoth she. "I'll fume with them!" And with that word she struck me on the head, And through the instrument my pate made way, And there stood amazed for a while, As on a pillory, looking through the lute, While she did call me "rascal fiddler," And "twangling Jack," with twenty such vile terms, As had she studied to misuse me so.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 63)
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench. love her ten times more than ere did.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 64)
how long to have some chat with her!   Well, go with me, and be not so discomfited.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 65)
Proceed in practice with my younger daughter. She's apt to learn, and thankful for good turns.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 66)
-- Signior Petruchio, will you go with us, Or shall send my daughter Kate to you?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 67)
pray you do. I'll attend her here--  And woo her with some spirit when she comes!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 68)
Say that she rail, why then I'll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 69)
Say that she frown, I'll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly washed with dew.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 70)
Say she be mute and will not speak a word, Then I'll commend her volubility And say she uttereth piercing eloquence.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 71)
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks As though she bid me stay by her a week.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 72)
If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day When shall ask the banns, and when be married.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 73)
But here she comes--and now, Petruchio, speak.    Good morrow, Kate, for that's your name, hear.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 74)
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 75)
They call me Katherine that do talk of me.   You lie, in faith, for you are called plain Kate, And bonny Kate, and sometimes Kate the curst.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 76)
But Kate, the prettiest Kate in Christendom, Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate (For dainties are all Kates)--and therefore, Kate, Take this of me, Kate of my consolation: Hearing thy mildness praised in every town, Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded (Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs), Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 77)
"Moved," in good time! Let him that moved you hither Remove you hence.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 78)
knew you at the first You were a movable.   Why, what's a movable?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 79)
joint stool.   Thou hast hit it. Come, sit on me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 80)
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.   Women are made to bear, and so are you.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 81)
No such jade as you, if me you mean.   Alas, good Kate, will not burden thee, For knowing thee to be but young and light--   Too light for such a swain as you to catch, And yet as heavy as my weight should be.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 82)
"Should be"--should buzz!  Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 83)
slow-winged turtle, shall a buzzard take thee?   Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 84)
Come, come, you wasp! faith, you are too angry.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 85)
If be waspish, best beware my sting.   My remedy is then to pluck it out.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 86)
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies.   Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 87)
In his tail.  In his tongue.  Whose tongue?   Yours, if you talk of tales, and so farewell.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 88)
What, with my tongue in your tail? Nay, come again, good Kate.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 89)
am a gentleman--  That I'll try.   swear I'll cuff you if you strike again.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 90)
So may you lose your arms. If you strike me, you are no gentleman, And if no gentleman, why then no arms.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 91)
herald, Kate? put me in thy books.  What is your crest?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 92)
coxcomb?   combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 93)
No cock of mine. You crow too like a craven.   Nay, come, Kate, come.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 94)
You must not look so sour.   It is my fashion when see a crab.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 95)
Why, here's no crab, and therefore look not sour.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 96)
There is, there is.   Then show it me.  Had a glass, would.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 97)
What, you mean my face?  Well aimed of such a young one.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 98)
Now, by Saint George, am too young for you.   Yet you are withered.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 99)
'Tis with cares.  care not.   Nay, hear you, Kate--in sooth, you 'scape not so.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 100)
chafe you if tarry. Let me go.   No, not a whit.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 101)
find you passing gentle. 'Twas told me you were rough, and coy, and sullen, And now find report a very liar.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 102)
For thou art pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous, But slow in speech, yet sweet as springtime flowers.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 103)
Thou canst not frown, thou canst not look askance, Nor bite the lip as angry wenches will, Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 104)
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers, With gentle conference, soft, and affable.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 105)
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp? sland'rous world!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 106)
Kate like the hazel twig Is straight, and slender, and as brown in hue As hazelnuts, and sweeter than the kernels.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 107)
let me see thee walk! Thou dost not halt.   Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 108)
Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 109)
be thou Dian and let her be Kate, And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 110)
Where did you study all this goodly speech?   It is extempore, from my mother wit.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 111)
witty mother, witless else her son.  Am not wise?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 112)
Yes, keep you warm.   Marry, so mean, sweet Katherine, in thy bed.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 113)
And therefore, setting all this chat aside, Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented That you shall be my wife, your dowry 'greed on, And, will you, nill you, will marry you.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 114)
Now, Kate, am a husband for your turn, For by this light, whereby see thy beauty, Thy beauty that doth make me like thee well, Thou must be married to no man but me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 115)
For am he am born to tame you, Kate, And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 116)
Here comes your father. Never make denial. must and will have Katherine to my wife.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 117)
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 118)
How but well, sir? How but well? It were impossible should speed amiss.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 119)
Why, how now, daughter Katherine? In your dumps?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 120)
Call you me daughter? Now promise you You have showed a tender fatherly regard, To wish me wed to one half lunatic, madcap ruffian and a swearing Jack, That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 121)
Father, 'tis thus: yourself and all the world That talked of her have talked amiss of her.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 122)
If she be curst, it is for policy, For she's not froward, but modest as the dove; She is not hot, but temperate as the morn.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 123)
For patience she will prove a second Grissel, And Roman Lucrece for her chastity.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 124)
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together That upon Sunday is the wedding day.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 125)
I'll see thee hanged on Sunday first.  Hark, Petruchio, she says she'll see thee hanged first.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 126)
Is this your speeding? Nay, then, goodnight our part.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 127)
Be patient, gentlemen. choose her for myself. If she and be pleased, what's that to you?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 128)
'Tis bargained 'twixt us twain, being alone, That she shall still be curst in company.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 129)
tell you, 'tis incredible to believe How much she loves me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 130)
the kindest Kate! She hung about my neck, and kiss on kiss She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath, That in a twink she won me to her love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 131)
you are novices! 'Tis a world to see How tame, when men and women are alone, meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 132)
-- Give me thy hand, Kate. will unto Venice To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding day.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 133)
-- Provide the feast, father, and bid the guests. will be sure my Katherine shall be fine.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 134)
know not what to say, but give me your hands. God send you joy, Petruchio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 135)
'Tis a match.  and Amen, say we. We will be witnesses.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 136)
Father, and wife, and gentlemen, adieu. will to Venice.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 137)
Sunday comes apace. We will have rings, and things, and fine array, And kiss me, Kate.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 138)
We will be married o' Sunday.     Was ever match clapped up so suddenly?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 139)
Faith, gentlemen, now play a merchant's part And venture madly on a desperate mart.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 140)
'Twas a commodity lay fretting by you. 'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 141)
The gain seek, is quiet in the match.   No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 142)
But now, Baptista, to your younger daughter. Now is the day we long have looked for.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 143)
am your neighbor and was suitor first.   And am one that love Bianca more Than words can witness or your thoughts can guess.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 144)
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as   Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 145)
But thine doth fry! Skipper, stand back. 'Tis age that nourisheth.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 146)
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.   Content you, gentlemen.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 147)
will compound this strife. 'Tis deeds must win the prize, and he of both That can assure my daughter greatest dower Shall have my Bianca's love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 148)
Say, Signior Gremio, what can you assure her?   First, as you know, my house within the city Is richly furnished with plate and gold, Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands; My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry; In ivory coffers have stuffed my crowns, In cypress chests my arras counterpoints, Costly apparel, tents, and canopies, Fine linen, Turkey cushions bossed with pearl, Valance of Venice gold in needlework, Pewter and brass, and all things that belongs To house or housekeeping.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 149)
Then, at my farm have a hundred milch-kine to the pail, Six score fat oxen standing in my stalls, And all things answerable to this portion.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 150)
Myself am struck in years, must confess, And if die tomorrow this is hers, If whilst live she will be only mine.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 151)
That "only" came well in.  Sir, list to me: am my father's heir and only son.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 152)
If may have your daughter to my wife, I'll leave her houses three or four as good, Within rich Pisa walls, as any one Old Signior Gremio has in Padua, Besides two thousand ducats by the year Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 153)
-- What, have pinched you, Signior Gremio?   Two thousand ducats by the year of land?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 154)
My land amounts not to so much in all.-- That she shall have, besides an argosy That now is lying in Marcellus' road.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 155)
What, have choked you with an argosy?   Gremio, 'tis known my father hath no less Than three great argosies, besides two galliasses And twelve tight galleys.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 156)
These will assure her, And twice as much whate'er thou off'rest next.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 157)
Nay, have offered all. have no more, And she can have no more than all have.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 158)
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.   Why, then, the maid is mine from all the world, By your firm promise.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 159)
Gremio is outvied.   must confess your offer is the best, And, let your father make her the assurance, She is your own; else, you must pardon me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 160)
If you should die before him, where's her dower?   That's but a cavil.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 161)
He is old, young.   And may not young men die as well as old?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 162)
Well, gentlemen, am thus resolved: On Sunday next, you know My daughter Katherine is to be married.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 163)
Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca Be bride to you, if you make this assurance.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 164)
If not, to Signior Gremio. And so take my leave, and thank you both.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 165)
Adieu, good neighbor. Now fear thee not. Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool To give thee all and in his waning age Set foot under thy table.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 166)
Tut, a toy! An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 167)
vengeance on your crafty withered hide!-- Yet have faced it with a card of ten.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 168)
'Tis in my head to do my master good. see no reason but supposed Lucentio Must get a father, called "supposed Vincentio"-- And that's a wonder.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 169)
Fathers commonly Do get their children. But in this case of wooing, child shall get a sire, if fail not of my cunning.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 0, Scene 170)
3         Fiddler, forbear. You grow too forward, sir.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 0)
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment Her sister Katherine welcomed you withal?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 1)
But, wrangling pedant, this is The patroness of heavenly harmony.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 2)
Then give me leave to have prerogative, And when in music we have spent an hour, Your lecture shall have leisure for as much.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 3)
Preposterous ass, that never read so far To know the cause why music was ordained.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 4)
Was it not to refresh the mind of man After his studies or his usual pain?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 5)
Then give me leave to read philosophy, And, while pause, serve in your harmony.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 6)
Sirrah, will not bear these braves of thine.   Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong To strive for that which resteth in my choice.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 7)
am no breeching scholar in the schools. I'll not be tied to hours, nor 'pointed times, But learn my lessons as please myself.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 8)
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down. Take you your instrument, play you the whiles; His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 9)
You'll leave his lecture when am in tune?   That will be never.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 10)
Tune your instrument.  Where left we last?  Here, madam:  Hic ibat Simois, hic est Sigeia tellus, Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 11)
Conster them.  Hic ibat, as told you before, Simois, am Lucentio, hic est, son unto Vincentio of Pisa, Sigeia tellus, disguised thus to get your love, Hic steterat, and that "Lucentio" that comes a-wooing, Priami, is my man Tranio, regia, bearing my port, celsa senis, that we might beguile the old pantaloon.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 12)
Madam, my instrument's in tune.  Let's hear.  Oh fie, the treble jars!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 13)
Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.  Now let me see if can conster it.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 14)
Hic ibat Simois, know you not; hic est Sigeia tellus, trust you not; Hic steterat Priami, take heed he hear us not; regia, presume not; celsa senis, despair not.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 15)
Madam, 'tis now in tune.  All but the bass.   The bass is right.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 16)
'Tis the base knave that jars. How fiery and forward our pedant is.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 17)
Now for my life the knave doth court my love! Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 18)
In time may believe, yet mistrust.   Mistrust it not, for sure Aeacides Was Ajax, called so from his grandfather.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 19)
must believe my master; else, promise you, should be arguing still upon that doubt.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 20)
But let it rest.--Now, Litio, to you. Good master, take it not unkindly, pray, That have been thus pleasant with you both.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 21)
You may go walk, and give me leave awhile. My lessons make no music in three parts.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 22)
Are you so formal, sir? Well, must wait And watch withal, for, but be deceived, Our fine musician groweth amorous.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 23)
Madam, before you touch the instrument, To learn the order of my fingering must begin with rudiments of art, To teach you gamut in a briefer sort, More pleasant, pithy, and effectual Than hath been taught by any of my trade.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 24)
And there it is in writing fairly drawn.   Why, am past my gamut long ago.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 25)
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.    "Gamut am, the ground of all accord: re, to plead Hortensio's passion; mi, Bianca, take him for thy lord, fa ut, that loves with all affection; sol re, one clef, two notes have la mi, show pity or die.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 26)
" Call you this "gamut"? Tut, like it not. Old fashions please me best.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 27)
am not so nice To change true rules for odd inventions.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 28)
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books And help to dress your sister's chamber up.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 29)
You know tomorrow is the wedding day.   Farewell, sweet masters both.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 30)
must be gone.   Faith, mistress, then have no cause to stay.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 31)
But have cause to pry into this pedant. Methinks he looks as though he were in love.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 32)
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble To cast thy wand'ring eyes on every stale, Seize thee that list!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 33)
If once find thee ranging, Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 14, Scene 34)
Signior Lucentio, this is the 'pointed day That Katherine and Petruchio should be married, And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 0)
What will be said? What mockery will it be, To want the bridegroom when the priest attends To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 1)
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?   No shame but mine.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 2)
must, forsooth, be forced To give my hand, opposed against my heart, Unto a mad-brain rudesby, full of spleen, Who wooed in haste and means to wed at leisure.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 3)
told you, he was a frantic fool, Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior, And, to be noted for a merry man, He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage, Make friends, invite, and proclaim the banns, Yet never means to wed where he hath wooed.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 4)
Now must the world point at poor Katherine And say "Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife, If it would please him come and marry her.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 5)
"   Patience, good Katherine, and Baptista too. Upon my life, Petruchio means but well, Whatever fortune stays him from his word.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 6)
Though he be blunt, know him passing wise; Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 7)
Would Katherine had never seen him, though!    Go, girl.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 8)
cannot blame thee now to weep, For such an injury would vex a very saint, Much more a shrew of thy impatient humor.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 9)
Master, master, news! And such old news as you never heard of!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 10)
Is it new and old too? How may that be?  Why, is it not news to hear of Petruchio's coming?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 11)
Is he come?  Why, no, sir.   What then?  He is coming.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 12)
When will he be here?   When he stands where am, and sees you there.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 13)
But say, what to thine old news?  Why, Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled, another laced; an old rusty sword ta'en out of the town armory, with a broken hilt, and chapeless; with two broken points; his horse hipped, with an old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred, besides possessed with the glanders and like to mose in the chine, troubled with the lampass, infected with the fashions, full of windgalls, sped with spavins, rayed with the yellows, past cure of the fives, stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten, near-legged before, and with a half-checked bit and a headstall of sheep's leather, which, being restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been often burst, and now repaired with knots; one girth six times pieced, and a woman's crupper of velour, which hath two letters for her name fairly set down in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 14)
Who comes with him?  Oh, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned like the horse: with a linen stock on one leg and a kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red and blue list; an old hat, and the humor of forty fancies pricked in 't for a feather.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 15)
monster, a very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian footboy or a gentleman's lackey.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 16)
'Tis some odd humor pricks him to this fashion, Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-appareled.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 17)
am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.  Why, sir, he comes not.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 18)
Didst thou not say he comes?  Who? That Petruchio came?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 19)
Ay, that Petruchio came!  No, sir, say his horse comes with him on his back.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 20)
Why, that's all one.   Nay, by Saint Jamy. hold you a penny, horse and a man Is more than one, And yet not many.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 21)
Come, where be these gallants? Who's at home?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 22)
You are welcome, sir.  And yet come not well.  And yet you halt not.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 23)
Not so well appareled as wish you were.   Were it better should rush in thus-- But where is Kate?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 24)
Where is my lovely bride? How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 25)
And wherefore gaze this goodly company As if they saw some wondrous monument, Some comet or unusual prodigy?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 26)
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding day. First were we sad, fearing you would not come, Now sadder that you come so unprovided.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 27)
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate, An eyesore to our solemn festival.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 28)
And tell us what occasion of import Hath all so long detained you from your wife And sent you hither so unlike yourself.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 29)
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear. Sufficeth am come to keep my word, Though in some part enforced to digress, Which at more leisure will so excuse As you shall well be satisfied with all.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 30)
But where is Kate? stay too long from her. The morning wears.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 31)
'Tis time we were at church.   See not your bride in these unreverent robes.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 32)
Go to my chamber, put on clothes of mine.   Not believe me.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 33)
Thus I'll visit her.   But thus, trust, you will not marry her.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 34)
Good sooth, even thus. Therefore, ha' done with words.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 35)
To me she's married, not unto my clothes. Could repair what she will wear in me, As can change these poor accoutrements, 'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 36)
But what a fool am to chat with you When should bid good morrow to my bride And seal the title with a lovely kiss!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 37)
He hath some meaning in his mad attire. We will persuade him, be it possible, To put on better ere he go to church.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 38)
I'll after him, and see the event of this.    But, sir, to love concerneth us to add Her father's liking, which to bring to pass, As before imparted to your Worship, am to get a man (whate'er he be It skills not much, we'll fit him to our turn), And he shall be "Vincentio of Pisa," And make assurance here in Padua Of greater sums than have promised.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 39)
So shall you quietly enjoy your hope And marry sweet Bianca with consent.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 40)
Were it not that my fellow schoolmaster Doth watch Bianca's steps so narrowly, 'Twere good, methinks, to steal our marriage, Which, once performed, let all the world say no, I'll keep mine own despite of all the world.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 41)
That by degrees we mean to look into, And watch our vantage in this business.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 42)
We'll overreach the graybeard, Gremio, The narrow prying father, Minola, The quaint musician, amorous Litio, All for my master's sake, Lucentio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 43)
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?   As willingly as e'er came from school.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 44)
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?   bridegroom, say you?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 45)
'Tis a groom indeed, grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 46)
Curster than she? Why, 'tis impossible.   Why, he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 47)
Why, she's a devil, a devil, the devil's dam.   Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 48)
I'll tell you, Sir Lucentio: when the priest Should ask if Katherine should be his wife, "Ay, by gog's wouns!(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 49)
" quoth he, and swore so loud That, all amazed, the priest let fall the book, And as he stooped again to take it up, This mad-brained bridegroom took him such a cuff That down fell priest and book, and book and priest.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 50)
"Now, take them up," quoth he, "if any list."   What said the wench when he rose again?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 51)
Trembled and shook, for why he stamped and swore As if the vicar meant to cozen him.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 52)
But after many ceremonies done, He calls for wine.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 53)
health!" quoth he, as if He had been aboard, carousing to his mates After a storm; quaffed off the muscatel And threw the sops all in the sexton's face, Having no other reason But that his beard grew thin and hungerly, And seemed to ask him sops as he was drinking.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 54)
This done, he took the bride about the neck And kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack That at the parting all the church did echo.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 55)
And seeing this, came thence for very shame, And after me know the rout is coming.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 56)
Such a mad marriage never was before! Hark, hark, hear the minstrels play.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 57)
Gentlemen and friends, thank you for your pains.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 58)
know you think to dine with me today And have prepared great store of wedding cheer, But so it is, my haste doth call me hence, And therefore here mean to take my leave.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 59)
Is 't possible you will away tonight?   must away today, before night come.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 60)
Make it no wonder. If you knew my business, You would entreat me rather go than stay.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 61)
And, honest company, thank you all, That have beheld me give away myself To this most patient, sweet, and virtuous wife.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 62)
Dine with my father, drink a health to me, For must hence, and farewell to you all.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 63)
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.  It may not be.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 64)
Let me entreat you.  It cannot be.  Let me entreat you.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 65)
am content.  Are you content to stay?   am content you shall entreat me stay, But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 66)
Now, if you love me, stay.  Grumio, my horse.  Ay, sir, they be ready; the oats have eaten the horses.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 67)
Nay, then, Do what thou canst, will not go today, No, nor tomorrow, not till please myself.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 68)
The door is open, sir. There lies your way. You may be jogging whiles your boots are green.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 69)
For me, I'll not be gone till please myself. 'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom, That take it on you at the first so roundly.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 70)
Kate, content thee. Prithee, be not angry.   will be angry.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 71)
What hast thou to do?-- Father, be quiet. He shall stay my leisure.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 72)
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.   Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 73)
see a woman may be made a fool If she had not a spirit to resist.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 74)
They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.-- Obey the bride, you that attend on her.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 75)
Go to the feast, revel and domineer, Carouse full measure to her maidenhead, Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 76)
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me. Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret; will be master of what is mine own.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 77)
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house, My household stuff, my field, my barn, My horse, my ox, my ass, my anything.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 78)
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare. I'll bring mine action on the proudest he That stops my way in Padua.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 79)
--Grumio, Draw forth thy weapon. We are beset with thieves.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 80)
Rescue thy mistress if thou be a man!-- Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch thee, Kate.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 81)
I'll buckler thee against a million.    Nay, let them go.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 82)
couple of quiet ones!   Went they not quickly, should die with laughing.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 83)
Of all mad matches never was the like.   Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 84)
That being mad herself, she's madly mated.   warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 85)
Neighbors and friends, though bride and bridegroom wants For to supply the places at the table, You know there wants no junkets at the feast.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 86)
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place, And let Bianca take her sister's room.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 87)
Shall sweet Bianca practice how to bride it?   She shall, Lucentio.(The Taming of the Shrew, Act 15, Scene 88)
Sir, your glove.  Not mine. My gloves are on.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 0)
Why, then, this may be yours, for this is but one.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 1)
Ha? Let me see. Ay, give it me, it's mine. Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 2)
Ah, Sylvia, Sylvia!  Madam Sylvia! Madam Sylvia!  How now, sirrah?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 3)
She is not within hearing, sir.  Why, sir, who bade you call her?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 4)
Your Worship, sir, or else mistook.  Well, you'll still be too forward.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 5)
And yet was last chidden for being too slow.  Go to, sir.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 6)
Tell me, do you know Madam Sylvia?  She that your Worship loves?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 7)
Why, how know you that am in love?  Marry, by these special marks: first, you have learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms like a malcontent; to relish a love song like a robin redbreast; to walk alone like one that had the pestilence; to sigh like a schoolboy that had lost his to weep like a young wench that had buried her grandam; to fast like one that takes diet; to watch like one that fears robbing; to speak puling like a beggar at Hallowmas.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 8)
You were wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you walked, to walk like one of the lions.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 9)
When you fasted, it was presently after dinner; when you looked sadly, it was for want of money.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 10)
And now you are metamorphosed with a mistress, that when look on you, can hardly think you my master.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 11)
Are all these things perceived in me?  They are all perceived without you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 12)
Without me? They cannot.  Without you? Nay, that's certain, for without you were so simple, none else would.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 13)
But you are so without these follies, that these follies are within you and shine through you like the water in an urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a physician to comment on your malady.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 14)
But tell me, dost thou know my Lady Sylvia?  She that you gaze on so as she sits at supper?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 15)
Hast thou observed that? Even she mean.  Why, sir, know her not.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 16)
Dost thou know her by my gazing on her and yet know'st her not?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 17)
Is she not hard-favored, sir?  Not so fair, boy, as well-favored.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 18)
Sir, know that well enough.  What dost thou know?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 19)
That she is not so fair as, of you, well-favored.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 20)
mean that her beauty is exquisite but her favor infinite.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 21)
That's because the one is painted, and the other out of all count.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 22)
How painted? And how out of count?  Marry, sir, so painted to make her fair, that no man counts of her beauty.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 23)
How esteem'st thou me? account of her beauty.  You never saw her since she was deformed.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 24)
How long hath she been deformed?  Ever since you loved her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 25)
have loved her ever since saw her, and still see her beautiful.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 26)
If you love her, you cannot see her.  Why?  Because love is blind.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 27)
that you had mine eyes, or your own eyes had the lights they were wont to have when you chid at Sir Proteus for going ungartered!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 28)
What should see then?  Your own present folly and her passing deformity; for he, being in love, could not see to garter his hose, and you, being in love, cannot see to put on your hose.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 29)
Belike, boy, then you are in love, for last morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 30)
True, sir, was in love with my bed. thank you, you swinged me for my love, which makes me the bolder to chide you for yours.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 31)
In conclusion, stand affected to her.  would you were set, so your affection would cease.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 32)
Last night she enjoined me to write some lines to one she loves.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 33)
And have you?  have.  Are they not lamely writ?  No, boy, but as well as can do them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 34)
Peace, here she comes.     excellent motion! exceeding puppet!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 35)
Now will he interpret to her.  Madam and mistress, a thousand good-morrows.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 36)
give ye good ev'n! Here's a million of manners.  Sir Valentine, and servant, to you two thousand.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 37)
He should give her interest, and she gives it him.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 38)
As you enjoined me, have writ your letter Unto the secret, nameless friend of yours, Which was much unwilling to proceed in But for my duty to your Ladyship.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 39)
thank you, gentle servant, 'tis very clerkly done.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 40)
Now trust me, madam, it came hardly off, For, being ignorant to whom it goes, writ at random, very doubtfully.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 41)
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?   No, madam.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 42)
So it stead you, will write, Please you command, a thousand times as much, And yet--   pretty period.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 43)
Well, guess the sequel; And yet will not name it And yet care not.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 44)
And yet take this again. And yet thank you, Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 45)
And yet you will; and yet another "yet."   What means your Ladyship?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 46)
Do you not like it?   Yes, yes, the lines are very quaintly writ, But, since unwillingly, take them again.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 47)
Nay, take them.  Madam, they are for you.   Ay, ay.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 48)
You writ them, sir, at my request, But will none of them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 49)
They are for you. would have had them writ more movingly.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 50)
Please you, I'll write your Ladyship another.   And when it's writ, for my sake read it over, And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 51)
If it please me, madam? What then?   Why, if it please you, take it for your labor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 52)
And so good-morrow, servant.   jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible As a nose on a man's face, or a weathercock on a steeple!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 53)
My master sues to her, and she hath taught her suitor, He being her pupil, to become her tutor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 54)
excellent device! Was there ever heard a better? That my master, being scribe, to himself should write the letter?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 55)
How now, sir? What, are you reasoning with yourself?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 56)
Nay, was rhyming. 'Tis you that have the reason.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 57)
To do what?  To be a spokesman from Madam Sylvia.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 58)
To whom?  To yourself. Why, she woos you by a figure.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 59)
What figure?  By a letter, should say.  Why, she hath not writ to me!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 60)
What need she when she hath made you write to yourself?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 61)
Why, do you not perceive the jest?  No, believe me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 62)
No believing you indeed, sir. But did you perceive her earnest?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 63)
She gave me none, except an angry word.  Why, she hath given you a letter.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 64)
That's the letter writ to her friend.  And that letter hath she delivered, and there an end.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 65)
would it were no worse.  I'll warrant you, 'tis as well.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 66)
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply, Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover, Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 67)
All this speak in print, for in print found it. Why muse you, sir?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 68)
'Tis dinnertime.  have dined.  Ay, but hearken, sir, though the chameleon love can feed on the air, am one that am nourished by my victuals and would fain have meat.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 0, Scene 69)
Have patience, gentle Julia.  must where is no remedy.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 0)
When possibly can, will return.   If you turn not, you will return the sooner.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 1)
Keep this remembrance for thy Julia's sake.    Why, then we'll make exchange.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 2)
Here, take you this.   And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 3)
Here is my hand for my true constancy. And when that hour o'erslips me in the day Wherein sigh not, Julia, for thy sake, The next ensuing hour some foul mischance Torment me for my love's forgetfulness.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 4)
My father stays my coming. Answer not. The tide is now--nay, not thy tide of tears; That tide will stay me longer than should.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 5)
Julia, farewell. What, gone without a word? Ay, so true love should do.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 6)
It cannot speak, For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 7)
Sir Proteus, you are stayed for.  Go. come, come.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 1, Scene 8)
2       Nay,'twill be this hour ere have done weeping.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 0)
All the kind of the Lances have this very fault. have received my proportion like the Prodigious Son and am going with Sir Proteus to the Imperial's court.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 1)
think Crab my dog be the sourest-natured dog that lives: my mother weeping, my father wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat wringing her hands, and all our house in a great perplexity, yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed one tear.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 2)
He is a stone, a very pibble stone, and has no more pity in him than a dog.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 3)
Jew would have wept to have seen our parting. Why, my grandam, having no eyes, look you, wept herself blind at my parting.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 4)
Nay, I'll show you the manner of it. This shoe is my father.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 5)
No, this left shoe is my father; no, no, this left shoe is my mother.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 6)
Nay, that cannot be so neither. Yes, it is so, it is so; it hath the worser sole.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 7)
This shoe with the hole in it is my mother; and this my father.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 8)
vengeance on 't, there 'tis! Now sir, this staff is my sister, for, look you, she is as white as a lily and as small as a wand.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 9)
This hat is Nan, our maid. am the dog. No, the dog is himself, and am the dog.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 10)
the dog is me, and am myself. Ay, so, so. Now come to my father: "Father, your blessing.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 11)
" Now should not the shoe speak a word for weeping.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 12)
Now should kiss my father.  Well, he weeps on. Now come to my mother.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 13)
that she could speak now like a wold woman! Well, kiss her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 14)
Why, there 'tis; here's my mother's breath up and down.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 15)
Now come to my sister. Mark the moan she makes! Now the dog all this while sheds not a tear nor speaks a word.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 16)
But see how lay the dust with my tears.     Lance, away, away!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 17)
Aboard. Thy master is shipped, and thou art to post after with oars.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 18)
What's the matter? Why weep'st thou, man? Away, ass.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 19)
You'll lose the tide if you tarry any longer.  It is no matter if the tied were lost, for it is the unkindest tied that ever any man tied.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 20)
What's the unkindest tide?  Why, he that's tied here, Crab my dog.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 21)
Tut, man. mean thou 'lt lose the flood and, in losing the flood, lose thy voyage and, in losing thy voyage, lose thy master and, in losing thy master, lose thy service and, in losing thy service-- Why dost thou stop my mouth?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 22)
For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.  Where should lose my tongue?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 23)
In thy tale.  In thy tail!  Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and the service, and the tied.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 24)
Why, man, if the river were dry, am able to fill it with my tears; if the wind were down, could drive the boat with my sighs.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 25)
Come. Come away, man. was sent to call thee.  Sir, call me what thou dar'st.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 2, Scene 26)
Servant!  Mistress?  Master, Sir Thurio frowns on you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 0)
Ay, boy, it's for love.  Not of you.  Of my mistress, then.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 1)
'Twere good you knocked him.  Servant, you are sad.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 2)
Indeed, madam, seem so.  Seem you that you are not?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 3)
Haply do.  So do counterfeits.  So do you.  What seem that am not?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 4)
Wise.  What instance of the contrary?  Your folly.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 5)
And how quote you my folly?  quote it in your jerkin.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 6)
My "jerkin" is a doublet.  Well, then, I'll double your folly.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 7)
How!  What, angry, Sir Thurio? Do you change color?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 8)
Give him leave, madam. He is a kind of chameleon.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 9)
That hath more mind to feed on your blood than live in your air.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 10)
You have said, sir.  Ay, sir, and done too for this time.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 11)
know it well, sir. You always end ere you begin.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 12)
fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 13)
'Tis indeed, madam. We thank the giver.  Who is that, servant?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 14)
Yourself, sweet lady, for you gave the fire. Sir Thurio borrows his wit from your Ladyship's looks and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 15)
Sir, if you spend word for word with me, shall make your wit bankrupt.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 16)
know it well, sir. You have an exchequer of words and, think, no other treasure to give your followers, for it appears by their bare liveries that they live by your bare words.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 17)
No more, gentlemen, no more. Here comes my father.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 18)
Now, daughter Sylvia, you are hard beset.-- Sir Valentine, your father is in good health.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 19)
What say you to a letter from your friends Of much good news?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 20)
My lord, will be thankful To any happy messenger from thence.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 21)
Know you Don Antonio, your countryman?   Ay, my good lord, know the gentleman To be of worth and worthy estimation, And not without desert so well reputed.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 22)
Hath he not a son?   Ay, my good lord, a son that well deserves The honor and regard of such a father.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 23)
You know him well?   knew him as myself, for from our infancy We have conversed and spent our hours together, And though myself have been an idle truant, Omitting the sweet benefit of time To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection, Yet hath Sir Proteus--for that's his name-- Made use and fair advantage of his days: His years but young, but his experience old; His head unmellowed, but his judgment ripe; And in a word--for far behind his worth Comes all the praises that now bestow-- He is complete in feature and in mind, With all good grace to grace a gentleman.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 24)
Beshrew me, sir, but if he make this good, He is as worthy for an empress' love, As meet to be an emperor's counselor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 25)
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me With commendation from great potentates, And here he means to spend his time awhile.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 26)
think 'tis no unwelcome news to you.   Should have wished a thing, it had been he.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 27)
Welcome him then according to his worth. Sylvia, speak to you--and you, Sir Thurio.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 28)
For Valentine, need not cite him to it. will send him hither to you presently.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 29)
This is the gentleman told your Ladyship Had come along with me but that his mistress Did hold his eyes locked in her crystal looks.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 30)
Belike that now she hath enfranchised them Upon some other pawn for fealty.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 31)
Nay, sure, think she holds them prisoners still.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 32)
Nay, then, he should be blind, and being blind How could he see his way to seek out you?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 33)
Why, lady, love hath twenty pair of eyes.   They say that Love hath not an eye at all.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 34)
To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself. Upon a homely object, Love can wink.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 35)
Have done, have done. Here comes the gentleman.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 36)
Welcome, dear Proteus.--Mistress, beseech you Confirm his welcome with some special favor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 37)
His worth is warrant for his welcome hither, If this be he you oft have wished to hear from.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 38)
Mistress, it is. Sweet lady, entertain him To be my fellow-servant to your Ladyship.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 39)
Too low a mistress for so high a servant.   Not so, sweet lady, but too mean a servant To have a look of such a worthy mistress.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 40)
Leave off discourse of disability. Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 41)
My duty will boast of, nothing else.   And duty never yet did want his meed.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 42)
Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 43)
I'll die on him that says so but yourself.  That you are welcome?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 44)
That you are worthless.      Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 45)
wait upon his pleasure.  Come, Sir Thurio, Go with me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 46)
--Once more, new servant, welcome. I'll leave you to confer of home affairs.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 47)
When you have done, we look to hear from you.   We'll both attend upon your Ladyship.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 48)
Now tell me, how do all from whence you came?   Your friends are well and have them much commended.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 49)
And how do yours?  left them all in health.   How does your lady?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 50)
And how thrives your love?   My tales of love were wont to weary you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 51)
know you joy not in a love discourse.   Ay, Proteus, but that life is altered now.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 52)
have done penance for contemning Love, Whose high imperious thoughts have punished me With bitter fasts, with penitential groans, With nightly tears, and daily heartsore sighs, For in revenge of my contempt of love, Love hath chased sleep from my enthralled eyes And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 53)
gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord And hath so humbled me as confess There is no woe to his correction, Nor, to his service, no such joy on Earth.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 54)
Now, no discourse except it be of love. Now can break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep Upon the very naked name of Love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 55)
Enough; read your fortune in your eye. Was this the idol that you worship so?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 56)
Even she. And is she not a heavenly saint?   No, but she is an earthly paragon.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 57)
Call her divine.  will not flatter her.   flatter me, for love delights in praises.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 58)
When was sick, you gave me bitter pills, And must minister the like to you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 59)
Then speak the truth by her; if not divine, Yet let her be a principality, Sovereign to all the creatures on the Earth.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 60)
Except my mistress.  Sweet, except not any, Except thou wilt except against my love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 61)
Have not reason to prefer mine own?   And will help thee to prefer her too: She shall be dignified with this high honor-- To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss And, of so great a favor growing proud, Disdain to root the summer-swelling flower And make rough winter everlastingly.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 62)
Why, Valentine, what braggartism is this?   Pardon me, Proteus, all can is nothing To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 63)
She is alone--  Then let her alone.   Not for the world!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 64)
Why, man, she is mine own, And as rich in having such a jewel As twenty seas if all their sand were pearl, The water nectar, and the rocks pure gold.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 65)
Forgive me that do not dream on thee, Because thou seest me dote upon my love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 66)
My foolish rival, that her father likes Only for his possessions are so huge, Is gone with her along, and must after, For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 67)
But she loves you?   Ay, and we are betrothed; nay more, our marriage hour, With all the cunning manner of our flight Determined of: how must climb her window, The ladder made of cords, and all the means Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 68)
Good Proteus, go with me to my chamber, In these affairs to aid me with thy counsel.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 69)
Go on before. shall inquire you forth. must unto the road to disembark Some necessaries that needs must use, And then I'll presently attend you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 70)
Will you make haste?  will. Even as one heat another heat expels, Or as one nail by strength drives out another, So the remembrance of my former love Is by a newer object quite forgotten.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 71)
Is it mine eye, or Valentine's praise, Her true perfection, or my false transgression, That makes me reasonless to reason thus?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 72)
She is fair, and so is Julia that love-- That did love, for now my love is thawed, Which like a waxen image 'gainst a fire Bears no impression of the thing it was.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 73)
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold, And that love him not as was wont.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 74)
but love his lady too too much, And that's the reason love him so little.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 75)
How shall dote on her with more advice That thus without advice begin to love her?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 76)
'Tis but her picture have yet beheld, And that hath dazzled my reason's light; But when look on her perfections, There is no reason but shall be blind.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 77)
If can check my erring love, will; If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 3, Scene 78)
Lance, by mine honesty, welcome to Padua.  Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for am not welcome.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 0)
reckon this always: that a man is never undone till he be hanged, nor never welcome to a place till some certain shot be paid and the Hostess say welcome.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 1)
Come on, you madcap. I'll to the alehouse with you presently, where, for one shot of five pence, thou shalt have five thousand welcomes.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 2)
But, sirrah, how did thy master part with Madam Julia?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 3)
Marry, after they closed in earnest, they parted very fairly in jest.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 4)
But shall she marry him?  No.  How then? Shall he marry her?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 5)
No, neither.  What, are they broken?  No, they are both as whole as a fish.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 6)
Why then, how stands the matter with them?  Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it stands well with her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 7)
What an ass art thou! understand thee not.  What a block art thou that thou canst not!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 8)
My staff understands me.  What thou sayst?  Ay, and what do too.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 9)
Look thee, I'll but lean, and my staff understands me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 10)
It stands under thee indeed.  Why, "stand under" and "understand" is all one.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 11)
But tell me true, will 't be a match?  Ask my dog.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 12)
If he say "Ay," it will; if he say "No," it will; if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 13)
The conclusion is, then, that it will.  Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 14)
'Tis well that get it so. But, Lance, how sayst thou that my master is become a notable lover?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 15)
never knew him otherwise.  Than how?  notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 16)
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistak'st me.  Why, fool, meant not thee; meant thy master.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 17)
tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.  Why, tell thee, care not though he burn himself in love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 18)
If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse; if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the name of a Christian.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 19)
Why?  Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to go to the ale with a Christian.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 4, Scene 20)
To leave my Julia, shall be forsworn. To love fair Sylvia, shall be forsworn.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 0)
To wrong my friend, shall be much forsworn. And ev'n that power which gave me first my oath Provokes me to this threefold perjury.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 1)
Love bade me swear, and love bids me forswear. sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned, Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 2)
At first did adore a twinkling star, But now worship a celestial sun; Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken, And he wants wit that wants resolved will To learn his wit t' exchange the bad for better.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 3)
Fie, fie, unreverend tongue, to call her bad Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferred With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 4)
cannot leave to love, and yet do. But there leave to love where should love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 5)
Julia lose, and Valentine lose; If keep them, needs must lose myself; If lose them, thus find by their loss: For Valentine, myself; for Julia, Sylvia.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 6)
to myself am dearer than a friend, For love is still most precious in itself, And Sylvia--witness heaven that made her fair-- Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 7)
will forget that Julia is alive, Rememb'ring that my love to her is dead; And Valentine I'll hold an enemy, Aiming at Sylvia as a sweeter friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 8)
cannot now prove constant to myself Without some treachery used to Valentine.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 9)
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder To climb celestial Sylvia's chamber window, Myself in counsel his competitor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 10)
Now presently I'll give her father notice Of their disguising and pretended flight, Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine, For Thurio he intends shall wed his daughter.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 11)
But Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross By some sly trick blunt Thurio's dull proceeding.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 12)
Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift, As thou hast lent me wit to plot this drift.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 5, Scene 13)
Counsel, Lucetta. Gentle girl, assist me; And ev'n in kind love do conjure thee-- Who art the table wherein all my thoughts Are visibly charactered and engraved-- To lesson me and tell me some good mean How with my honor may undertake journey to my loving Proteus.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 0)
Alas, the way is wearisome and long.   true-devoted pilgrim is not weary To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps; Much less shall she that hath Love's wings to fly, And when the flight is made to one so dear, Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 1)
Better forbear till Proteus make return.   know'st thou not his looks are my soul's food?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 2)
Pity the dearth that have pined in By longing for that food so long a time.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 3)
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love, Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow As seek to quench the fire of love with words.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 4)
do not seek to quench your love's hot fire, But qualify the fire's extreme rage, Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 5)
The more thou damm'st it up, the more it burns.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 6)
The current that with gentle murmur glides, Thou know'st, being stopped, impatiently doth rage, But when his fair course is not hindered, He makes sweet music with th' enameled stones, Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge He overtaketh in his pilgrimage; And so by many winding nooks he strays With willing sport to the wild ocean.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 7)
Then let me go and hinder not my course. I'll be as patient as a gentle stream And make a pastime of each weary step Till the last step have brought me to my love, And there I'll rest as after much turmoil blessed soul doth in Elysium.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 8)
But in what habit will you go along?   Not like a woman, for would prevent The loose encounters of lascivious men.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 9)
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds As may beseem some well-reputed page.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 10)
Why, then, your Ladyship must cut your hair.   No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 11)
To be fantastic may become a youth Of greater time than shall show to be.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 12)
What fashion, madam, shall make your breeches?   That fits as well as "Tell me, good my lord, What compass will you wear your farthingale?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 13)
" Why, ev'n what fashion thou best likes, Lucetta.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 14)
You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 15)
Out, out, Lucetta. That will be ill-favored.   round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 16)
Lucetta, as thou lov'st me, let me have What thou think'st meet and is most mannerly.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 17)
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me For undertaking so unstaid a journey?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 18)
fear me it will make me scandalized.   If you think so, then stay at home and go not.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 19)
Nay, that will not.   Then never dream on infamy, but go.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 20)
If Proteus like your journey when you come, No matter who's displeased when you are gone.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 21)
fear me he will scarce be pleased withal.   That is the least, Lucetta, of my fear.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 22)
thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears, And instances of infinite of love Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 23)
All these are servants to deceitful men.   Base men that use them to so base effect!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 24)
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth. His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles, His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate, His tears pure messengers sent from his heart, His heart as far from fraud as heaven from Earth.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 25)
Pray heav'n he prove so when you come to him.   Now, as thou lov'st me, do him not that wrong To bear a hard opinion of his truth.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 26)
Only deserve my love by loving him. And presently go with me to my chamber To take a note of what stand in need of To furnish me upon my longing journey.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 27)
All that is mine leave at thy dispose, My goods, my lands, my reputation.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 28)
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence. Come, answer not, but to it presently.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 6, Scene 29)
Sir Thurio, give us leave, pray, awhile; We have some secrets to confer about.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 0)
Now tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?   My gracious lord, that which would discover The law of friendship bids me to conceal, But when call to mind your gracious favors Done to me, undeserving as am, My duty pricks me on to utter that Which else no worldly good should draw from me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 1)
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine my friend This night intends to steal away your daughter; Myself am one made privy to the plot.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 2)
know you have determined to bestow her On Thurio, whom your gentle daughter hates, And should she thus be stol'n away from you, It would be much vexation to your age.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 3)
Thus, for my duty's sake, rather chose To cross my friend in his intended drift Than, by concealing it, heap on your head pack of sorrows which would press you down, Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 4)
Proteus, thank thee for thine honest care, Which to requite command me while live.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 5)
This love of theirs myself have often seen, Haply when they have judged me fast asleep, And oftentimes have purposed to forbid Sir Valentine her company and my court.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 6)
But fearing lest my jealous aim might err And so, unworthily, disgrace the man-- rashness that ever yet have shunned-- gave him gentle looks, thereby to find That which thyself hast now disclosed to me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 7)
And that thou mayst perceive my fear of this, Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested, nightly lodge her in an upper tower, The key whereof myself have ever kept, And thence she cannot be conveyed away.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 8)
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean How he her chamber-window will ascend And with a corded ladder fetch her down; For which the youthful lover now is gone, And this way comes he with it presently, Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 9)
But, good my lord, do it so cunningly That my discovery be not aimed at; For love of you, not hate unto my friend, Hath made me publisher of this pretense.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 10)
Upon mine honor, he shall never know That had any light from thee of this.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 11)
Adieu, my lord. Sir Valentine is coming.       Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 12)
Please it your Grace, there is a messenger That stays to bear my letters to my friends, And am going to deliver them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 13)
Be they of much import?   The tenor of them doth but signify My health and happy being at your court.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 14)
Nay then, no matter. Stay with me awhile; am to break with thee of some affairs That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 15)
'Tis not unknown to thee that have sought To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 16)
know it well, my lord, and sure the match Were rich and honorable.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 17)
Besides, the gentleman Is full of virtue, bounty, worth, and qualities Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 18)
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?   No. Trust me, she is peevish, sullen, froward, Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty, Neither regarding that she is my child Nor fearing me as if were her father; And may say to thee, this pride of hers, Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her, And where thought the remnant of mine age Should have been cherished by her childlike duty, now am full resolved to take a wife And turn her out to who will take her in.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 19)
Then let her beauty be her wedding dower, For me and my possessions she esteems not.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 20)
What would your Grace have me to do in this?   There is a lady in Verona here Whom affect; but she is nice, and coy, And nought esteems my aged eloquence.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 21)
Now therefore would have thee to my tutor-- For long agone have forgot to court; Besides, the fashion of the time is changed-- How and which way may bestow myself To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 22)
Win her with gifts if she respect not words; Dumb jewels often in their silent kind More than quick words do move a woman's mind.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 23)
But she did scorn a present that sent her.   woman sometime scorns what best contents her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 24)
Send her another; never give her o'er, For scorn at first makes after-love the more.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 25)
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you, But rather to beget more love in you.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 26)
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone, Forwhy the fools are mad if left alone.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 27)
Take no repulse, whatever she doth say; For "get you gone" she doth not mean "away.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 28)
" Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces; Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 29)
That man that hath a tongue, say, is no man If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 30)
But she mean is promised by her friends Unto a youthful gentleman of worth And kept severely from resort of men, That no man hath access by day to her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 31)
Why, then, would resort to her by night.   Ay, but the doors be locked and keys kept safe, That no man hath recourse to her by night.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 32)
What lets but one may enter at her window?   Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground, And built so shelving that one cannot climb it Without apparent hazard of his life.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 33)
Why, then a ladder quaintly made of cords To cast up, with a pair of anchoring hooks, Would serve to scale another Hero's tower, So bold Leander would adventure it.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 34)
Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood, Advise me where may have such a ladder.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 35)
When would you use it? Pray sir, tell me that.   This very night; for love is like a child That longs for everything that he can come by.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 36)
By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.   But hark thee: will go to her alone; How shall best convey the ladder thither?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 37)
It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it Under a cloak that is of any length.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 38)
cloak as long as thine will serve the turn?   Ay, my good lord.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 39)
Then let me see thy cloak; I'll get me one of such another length.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 40)
Why, any cloak will serve the turn, my lord.   How shall fashion me to wear a cloak?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 41)
pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.   What letter is this same?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 42)
What's here?  To Sylvia. And here an engine fit for my proceeding.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 43)
I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.  My thoughts do harbor with my Sylvia nightly, And slaves they are to me that send them flying.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 44)
could their master come and go as lightly, Himself would lodge where, senseless, they are lying.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 45)
My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them, While their king, that thither them importune, Do curse the grace that with such grace hath blest them, Because myself do want my servants' fortune.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 46)
curse myself, for they are sent by me, That they should harbor where their lord should be.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 47)
What's here? Sylvia, this night will enfranchise thee.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 48)
'Tis so. And here's the ladder for the purpose. Why, Phaeton--for thou art Merops' son-- Wilt thou aspire to guide the heavenly car And with thy daring folly burn the world?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 49)
Wilt thou reach stars because they shine on thee?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 50)
Go, base intruder, overweening slave, Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates And think my patience, more than thy desert, Is privilege for thy departure hence.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 51)
Thank me for this more than for all the favors Which all too much have bestowed on thee.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 52)
But if thou linger in my territories Longer than swiftest expedition Will give thee time to leave our royal court, By heaven, my wrath shall far exceed the love ever bore my daughter or thyself.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 53)
Begone. will not hear thy vain excuse, But, as thou lov'st thy life, make speed from hence.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 54)
And why not death, rather than living torment?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 55)
To die is to be banished from myself, And Sylvia is myself; banished from her Is self from self--a deadly banishment.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 56)
What light is light if Sylvia be not seen? What joy is joy if Sylvia be not by-- Unless it be to think that she is by And feed upon the shadow of perfection?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 57)
Except be by Sylvia in the night, There is no music in the nightingale.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 58)
Unless look on Sylvia in the day, There is no day for me to look upon.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 59)
She is my essence, and leave to be If be not by her fair influence Fostered, illumined, cherished, kept alive.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 60)
fly not death, to fly his deadly doom; Tarry here, but attend on death, But fly hence, fly away from life.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 61)
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.  So-ho, so-ho!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 62)
What seest thou?  Him we go to find. There's not a hair on 's head but 'tis a Valentine.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 63)
Valentine?  No.  Who then? His spirit?  Neither.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 64)
What then?  Nothing.  Can nothing speak? Master, shall strike?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 65)
Who wouldst thou strike?  Nothing.  Villain, forbear.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 66)
Why, sir, I'll strike nothing. pray you--   Sirrah, say forbear.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 67)
--Friend Valentine, a word.   My ears are stopped and cannot hear good news, So much of bad already hath possessed them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 68)
Then in dumb silence will bury mine, For they are harsh, untunable, and bad.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 69)
Is Sylvia dead?  No, Valentine.   No Valentine indeed for sacred Sylvia.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 70)
Hath she forsworn me?  No, Valentine.   No Valentine if Sylvia have forsworn me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 71)
What is your news?  Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 72)
That thou art banished--O, that's the news-- From hence, from Sylvia, and from me thy friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 73)
have fed upon this woe already, And now excess of it will make me surfeit.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 74)
Doth Sylvia know that am banished?   Ay, ay, and she hath offered to the doom-- Which unreversed stands in effectual force-- sea of melting pearl, which some call tears; Those at her father's churlish feet she tendered, With them, upon her knees, her humble self, Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them As if but now they waxed pale for woe.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 75)
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up, Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire; But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 76)
Besides, her intercession chafed him so, When she for thy repeal was suppliant, That to close prison he commanded her With many bitter threats of biding there.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 77)
No more, unless the next word that thou speak'st Have some malignant power upon my life.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 78)
If so, pray thee breathe it in mine ear As ending anthem of my endless dolor.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 79)
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help, And study help for that which thou lament'st.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 80)
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good. Here, if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love; Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 81)
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that And manage it against despairing thoughts.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 82)
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence, Which, being writ to me, shall be delivered Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 83)
The time now serves not to expostulate. Come, I'll convey thee through the city gate And, ere part with thee, confer at large Of all that may concern thy love affairs.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 84)
As thou lov'st Sylvia, though not for thyself, Regard thy danger, and along with me.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 85)
pray thee, Lance, an if thou seest my boy, Bid him make haste and meet me at the North Gate.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 86)
Go, sirrah, find him out.--Come, Valentine.   my dear Sylvia!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 87)
Hapless Valentine!   am but a fool, look you, and yet have the wit to think my master is a kind of a knave, but that's all one if he be but one knave.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 88)
He lives not now that knows me to be in love, yet am in love, but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me, nor who 'tis love; and yet 'tis a woman, but what woman will not tell myself; and yet 'tis a milk-maid; yet 'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet 'tis a maid, for she is her master's maid and serves for wages.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 89)
She hath more qualities than a water spaniel, which is much in a bare Christian.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 90)
Here is the catalog of her condition. Imprimis, She can fetch and carry.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 91)
Why, a horse can do no more; nay, a horse cannot fetch but only carry; therefore is she better than a jade.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 92)
Item, She can milk. Look you, a sweet virtue in a maid with clean hands.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 93)
How now, Signior Lance? What news with your Mastership?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 94)
With my master's ship? Why, it is at sea.  Well, your old vice still: mistake the word.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 95)
What news, then, in your paper?  The black'st news that ever thou heard'st.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 96)
Why, man? How black?  Why, as black as ink.  Let me read them.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 97)
Fie on thee, jolt-head, thou canst not read.  Thou liest.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 98)
can.  will try thee. Tell me this, who begot thee?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 99)
Marry, the son of my grandfather.  illiterate loiterer, it was the son of thy grandmother.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 100)
This proves that thou canst not read.  Come, fool, come.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 101)
Try me in thy paper.  There, and Saint Nicholas be thy speed.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 102)
Imprimis, She can milk.  Ay, that she can.  Item, She brews good ale.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 103)
And thereof comes the proverb: "Blessing of your heart, you brew good ale.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 104)
"  Item, She can sew.  That's as much as to say "Can she so?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 105)
"  Item, She can knit.  What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when she can knit him a stock?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 106)
Item, She can wash and scour.  special virtue, for then she need not be washed and scoured.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 107)
Item, She can spin.  Then may set the world on wheels, when she can spin for her living.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 108)
Item, She hath many nameless virtues.  That's as much as to say "bastard virtues," that indeed know not their fathers and therefore have no names.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 109)
Here follow her vices.  Close at the heels of her virtues.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 110)
Item, She is not to be kissed fasting in respect of her breath.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 111)
Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 112)
Read on.  Item, She hath a sweet mouth.  That makes amends for her sour breath.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 113)
Item, She doth talk in her sleep.  It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 114)
Item, She is slow in words.  villain, that set this down among her vices!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 115)
To be slow in words is a woman's only virtue. pray thee, out with 't, and place it for her chief virtue.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 116)
Item, She is proud.  Out with that too; it was Eve's legacy and cannot be ta'en from her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 117)
Item, She hath no teeth.  care not for that neither, because love crusts.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 118)
Item, She is curst.  Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 119)
Item, She will often praise her liquor.  If her liquor be good, she shall; if she will not, will, for good things should be praised.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 120)
Item, She is too liberal.  Of her tongue she cannot, for that's writ down she is slow of; of her purse she shall not, for that I'll keep shut; now, of another thing she may, and that cannot help.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 121)
Well, proceed.  Item, She hath more hair than wit, and more faults than hairs, and more wealth than faults.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 122)
Stop there. I'll have her. She was mine and not mine twice or thrice in that last article.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 123)
Rehearse that once more.  Item, She hath more hair than wit.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 124)
"More hair than wit"? It may be; I'll prove it: the cover of the salt hides the salt, and therefore it is more than the salt; the hair that covers the wit is more than the wit, for the greater hides the less.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 125)
What's next?  And more faults than hairs.  That's monstrous!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 126)
that that were out!  And more wealth than faults.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 127)
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well, I'll have her, and if it be a match, as nothing is impossible--  What then?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 128)
Why, then will tell thee that thy master stays for thee at the North Gate.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 129)
For me?  For thee? Ay, who art thou? He hath stayed for a better man than thee.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 130)
And must go to him?  Thou must run to him, for thou hast stayed so long that going will scarce serve the turn.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 131)
Why didst not tell me sooner? Pox of your love letters!(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 132)
Now will he be swinged for reading my letter; an unmannerly slave, that will thrust himself into secrets.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 20, Scene 133)
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you Now Valentine is banished from her sight.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 0)
Since his exile she hath despised me most, Forsworn my company and railed at me, That am desperate of obtaining her.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 1)
This weak impress of love is as a figure Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 2)
little time will melt her frozen thoughts, And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 3)
How now, Sir Proteus? Is your countryman, According to our proclamation, gone?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 4)
Gone, my good lord.   My daughter takes his going grievously.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 5)
little time, my lord, will kill that grief.   So believe, but Thurio thinks not so.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 6)
Proteus, the good conceit hold of thee, For thou hast shown some sign of good desert, Makes me the better to confer with thee.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 7)
Longer than prove loyal to your Grace Let me not live to look upon your Grace.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 8)
Thou know'st how willingly would effect The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 9)
do, my lord.   And also, think, thou art not ignorant How she opposes her against my will?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 10)
She did, my lord, when Valentine was here.   Ay, and perversely she persevers so.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 11)
What might we do to make the girl forget The love of Valentine, and love Sir Thurio?(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 12)
The best way is to slander Valentine With falsehood, cowardice, and poor descent, Three things that women highly hold in hate.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 13)
Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.   Ay, if his enemy deliver it.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 14)
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 15)
Then you must undertake to slander him.   And that, my lord, shall be loath to do.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 16)
'Tis an ill office for a gentleman, Especially against his very friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 17)
Where your good word cannot advantage him, Your slander never can endamage him; Therefore the office is indifferent, Being entreated to it by your friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 18)
You have prevailed, my lord. If can do it By aught that can speak in his dispraise, She shall not long continue love to him.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 19)
But say this weed her love from Valentine, It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 20)
Therefore, as you unwind her love from him, Lest it should ravel and be good to none, You must provide to bottom it on me, Which must be done by praising me as much As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 21)
And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind Because we know, on Valentine's report, You are already Love's firm votary And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 22)
Upon this warrant shall you have access Where you with Sylvia may confer at large-- For she is lumpish, heavy, melancholy, And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you-- Where you may temper her by your persuasion To hate young Valentine and love my friend.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 23)
As much as can do will effect.-- But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 24)
You must lay lime to tangle her desires By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 25)
Ay, much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.   Say that upon the altar of her beauty You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 26)
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears Moist it again, and frame some feeling line That may discover such integrity.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 27)
For Orpheus' lute was strung with poets' sinews, Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones, Make tigers tame, and huge leviathans Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 28)
After your dire-lamenting elegies, Visit by night your lady's chamber window With some sweet consort; to their instruments Tune a deploring dump; the night's dead silence Will well become such sweet complaining grievance.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 29)
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.   This discipline shows thou hast been in love.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 30)
And thy advice this night I'll put in practice.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 31)
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver, Let us into the city presently To sort some gentlemen well-skilled in music.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 32)
have a sonnet that will serve the turn To give the onset to thy good advice.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 33)
About it, gentlemen.   We'll wait upon your Grace till after supper And afterward determine our proceedings.(The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Act 21, Scene 34)
And late five thousand. To Varro and to Isidore He owes nine thousand, besides my former sum, Which makes it five-and-twenty.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 0)
Still in motion Of raging waste! It cannot hold; it will not.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 1)
If want gold, steal but a beggar's dog And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 2)
If would sell my horse and buy twenty more Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon-- Ask nothing; give it him--it foals me straight, And able horses.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 3)
No porter at his gate But rather one that smiles and still invites All that pass by.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 4)
It cannot hold. No reason Can sound his state in safety.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 5)
--Caphis, ho! Caphis, say!     Here, sir. What is your pleasure?(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 6)
Get on your cloak and haste you to Lord Timon. Importune him for my moneys.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 7)
Be not ceased With slight denial, nor then silenced when "Commend me to your master" and the cap Plays in the right hand thus; but tell him My uses cry to me.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 8)
must serve my turn Out of mine own. His days and times are past, And my reliances on his fracted dates Have smit my credit.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 9)
love and honor him But must not break my back to heal his finger.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 10)
Immediate are my needs, and my relief Must not be tossed and turned to me in words But find supply immediate.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 11)
Get you gone. Put on a most importunate aspect, visage of demand, for do fear When every feather sticks in his own wing Lord Timon will be left a naked gull, Which flashes now a phoenix.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 12)
Get you gone.  go, sir.   go, sir"? Take the bonds along with you And have the dates in.(Timon of Athens, Act 0, Scene 13)
2        No care, no stop, so senseless of expense That he will neither know how to maintain it Nor cease his flow of riot.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 0)
Takes no account How things go from him nor resumes no care Of what is to continue.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 1)
Never mind Was to be so unwise to be so kind. What shall be done?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 2)
He will not hear till feel. must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 3)
Fie, fie, fie, fie!      Good even, Varro. What, you come for money?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 4)
Is 't not your business too?  It is. And yours too, Isidore?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 5)
It is so.  Would we were all discharged!  fear it.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 6)
Here comes the lord.      So soon as dinner's done we'll forth again, My Alcibiades.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 7)
With me? What is your will?   My lord, here is a note of certain dues.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 8)
Dues? Whence are you?  Of Athens here, my lord.  Go to my steward.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 9)
Please it your Lordship, he hath put me off To the succession of new days this month.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 10)
My master is awaked by great occasion To call upon his own and humbly prays you That with your other noble parts you'll suit In giving him his right.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 11)
Mine honest friend, prithee but repair to me next morning.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 12)
Nay, good my lord--  Contain thyself, good friend.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 13)
One Varro's servant, my good lord--   From Isidore.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 14)
He humbly prays your speedy payment.   If you did know, my lord, my master's wants--   'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks and past.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 15)
Your steward puts me off, my lord, and Am sent expressly to your Lordship.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 16)
Give me breath.-- do beseech you, good my lords, keep on.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 17)
I'll wait upon you instantly.  Come hither. Pray you, How goes the world that am thus encountered With clamorous demands of debt, broken bonds, And the detention of long-since-due debts Against my honor?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 18)
Please you, gentlemen, The time is unagreeable to this business.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 19)
Your importunacy cease till after dinner, That may make his Lordship understand Wherefore you are not paid.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 20)
Do so, my friends.-- See them well entertained.  Pray, draw near.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 21)
Stay, stay, here comes the Fool with Apemantus.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 22)
Let's ha' some sport with 'em.  Hang him! He'll abuse us.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 23)
plague upon him, dog!  How dost, Fool?  Dost dialogue with thy shadow?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 24)
speak not to thee.  No, 'tis to thyself.  Come away.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 25)
There's the fool hangs on your back already.  No, thou stand'st single; thou 'rt not on him yet.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 26)
Where's the fool now?  He last asked the question.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 27)
Poor rogues and usurers' men, bawds between gold and want.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 28)
What are we, Apemantus?  Asses.  Why?  That you ask me what you are, and do not know yourselves.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 29)
--Speak to 'em, Fool.  How do you, gentlemen?  Gramercies, good Fool.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 30)
How does your mistress?  She's e'en setting on water to scald such chickens as you are.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 31)
Would we could see you at Corinth!  Good. Gramercy.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 32)
Look you, here comes my master's page.  Why, how now, captain?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 33)
What do you in this wise company?--How dost thou, Apemantus?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 34)
Would had a rod in my mouth that might answer thee profitably.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 35)
Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of these letters.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 36)
know not which is which.   Canst not read?  No.  There will little learning die, then, that day thou art hanged.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 37)
This is to Lord Timon, this to Alcibiades. Go. Thou wast born a bastard, and thou 'lt die a bawd.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 38)
Thou wast whelped a dog, and thou shalt famish a dog's death.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 39)
Answer not. am gone.  E'en so thou outrunn'st grace.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 40)
--Fool, will go with you to Lord Timon's.  Will you leave me there?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 41)
If Timon stay at home.--You three serve three usurers?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 42)
Ay. Would they served us!  So would I--as good a trick as ever hangman served thief.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 43)
Are you three usurers' men?  Ay, fool.  think no usurer but has a fool to his servant.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 44)
My mistress is one, and am her Fool. When men come to borrow of your masters, they approach sadly and go away merry, but they enter my master's house merrily and go away sadly.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 45)
The reason of this?  could render one.  Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster and a knave, which notwithstanding, thou shalt be no less esteemed.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 46)
What is a whoremaster, fool?  fool in good clothes, and something like thee.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 47)
'Tis a spirit; sometime 't appears like a lord, sometime like a lawyer, sometime like a philosopher, with two stones more than 's artificial one.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 48)
He is very often like a knight, and generally in all shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore to thirteen, this spirit walks in.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 49)
Thou art not altogether a Fool.  Nor thou altogether a wise man.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 50)
As much foolery as have, so much wit thou lack'st.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 51)
That answer might have become Apemantus.  Aside, aside!(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 52)
Here comes Lord Timon.     Come with me, fool, come.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 53)
do not always follow lover, elder brother, and woman; sometime the philosopher.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 54)
Pray you, walk near. I'll speak with you anon.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 55)
You make me marvel wherefore ere this time Had you not fully laid my state before me, That might so have rated my expense As had leave of means.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 56)
You would not hear me. At many leisures proposed--  Go to.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 57)
Perchance some single vantages you took When my indisposition put you back, And that unaptness made your minister Thus to excuse yourself.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 58)
my good lord, At many times brought in my accounts, Laid them before you.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 59)
You would throw them off And say you found them in mine honesty.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 60)
When for some trifling present you have bid me Return so much, have shook my head and wept-- Yea, 'gainst th' authority of manners prayed you To hold your hand more close.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 61)
did endure Not seldom nor no slight checks when have Prompted you in the ebb of your estate And your great flow of debts.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 62)
My loved lord, Though you hear now too late, yet now's a time.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 63)
The greatest of your having lacks a half To pay your present debts.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 64)
Let all my land be sold.   'Tis all engaged, some forfeited and gone, And what remains will hardly stop the mouth Of present dues.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 65)
The future comes apace. What shall defend the interim?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 66)
And at length How goes our reck'ning?   To Lacedaemon did my land extend.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 67)
my good lord, the world is but a word. Were it all yours to give it in a breath, How quickly were it gone!(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 68)
You tell me true.   If you suspect my husbandry of falsehood, Call me before th' exactest auditors, And set me on the proof.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 69)
So the gods bless me, When all our offices have been oppressed With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept With drunken spilth of wine, when every room Hath blazed with lights and brayed with minstrelsy, have retired me to a wasteful cock And set mine eyes at flow.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 70)
Prithee, no more.   Heavens, have said, the bounty of this lord!(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 71)
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants This night englutted.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 72)
Who is not Timon's? What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is Lord Timon's?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 73)
Great Timon, noble, worthy, royal Timon! Ah, when the means are gone that buy this praise, The breath is gone whereof this praise is made.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 74)
Feast-won, fast-lost. One cloud of winter showers, These flies are couched.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 75)
Come, sermon me no further. No villainous bounty yet hath passed my heart; Unwisely, not ignobly, have given.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 76)
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack To think shall lack friends?(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 77)
Secure thy heart. If would broach the vessels of my love And try the argument of hearts by borrowing, Men and men's fortunes could frankly use As can bid thee speak.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 78)
Assurance bless your thoughts!   And in some sort these wants of mine are crowned, That account them blessings.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 79)
For by these Shall try friends. You shall perceive how you Mistake my fortunes.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 80)
am wealthy in my friends.-- Within there! Flaminius!(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 81)
--Servilius!     My lord, my lord.  will dispatch you severally.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 82)
You to Lord Lucius,  to Lord Lucullus you--I hunted with his Honor today; you to Sempronius.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 83)
Commend me to their loves, and am proud, say, that my occasions have found time to use 'em toward a supply of money.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 84)
Let the request be fifty talents.  As you have said, my lord.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 85)
Lord Lucius and Lucullus? Humh!  Go you, sir, to the Senators, Of whom, even to the state's best health, have Deserved this hearing.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 86)
Bid 'em send o' th' instant thousand talents to me.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 87)
have been bold-- For that knew it the most general way-- To them to use your signet and your name, But they do shake their heads, and am here No richer in return.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 88)
Is 't true? Can 't be?   They answer in a joint and corporate voice That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot Do what they would, are sorry.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 89)
You are honorable, But yet they could have wished--they know not-- Something hath been amiss--a noble nature May catch a wrench--would all were well--'tis pity.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 90)
And so, intending other serious matters, After distasteful looks and these hard fractions, With certain half-caps and cold-moving nods They froze me into silence.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 91)
You gods, reward them! Prithee, man, look cheerly.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 92)
These old fellows Have their ingratitude in them hereditary.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 93)
Their blood is caked, 'tis cold, it seldom flows; 'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind; And nature, as it grows again toward earth, Is fashioned for the journey, dull and heavy.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 94)
Go to Ventidius. Prithee, be not sad. Thou art true and honest--ingeniously speak-- No blame belongs to thee.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 95)
Ventidius lately Buried his father, by whose death he's stepped Into a great estate.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 96)
When he was poor, Imprisoned, and in scarcity of friends, cleared him with five talents.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 97)
Greet him from me. Bid him suppose some good necessity Touches his friend, which craves to be remembered With those five talents.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 98)
That had, give 't these fellows To whom 'tis instant due.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 99)
Ne'er speak or think That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 100)
would could not think it. That thought is bounty's foe; Being free itself, it thinks all others so.(Timon of Athens, Act 1, Scene 101)
2      Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top, Safe out of Fortune's shot, and sits aloft, Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash, Advanced above pale Envy's threat'ning reach.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 0)
As when the golden sun salutes the morn And, having gilt the ocean with his beams, Gallops the zodiac in his glistering coach And overlooks the highest-peering hills, So Tamora.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 1)
Upon her wit doth earthly honor wait, And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 2)
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart and fit thy thoughts To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress, And mount her pitch whom thou in triumph long Hast prisoner held, fettered in amorous chains And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes Than is Prometheus tied to Caucasus.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 3)
Away with slavish weeds and servile thoughts! will be bright, and shine in pearl and gold To wait upon this new-made emperess.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 4)
To wait, said To wanton with this queen, This goddess, this Semiramis, this nymph, This siren that will charm Rome's Saturnine And see his shipwrack and his commonweal's.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 5)
Holla! What storm is this?      Chiron, thy years wants wit, thy wits wants edge And manners, to intrude where am graced, And may, for aught thou knowest, affected be.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 6)
Demetrius, thou dost overween in all, And so in this, to bear me down with braves.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 7)
'Tis not the difference of a year or two Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 8)
am as able and as fit as thou To serve and to deserve my mistress' grace, And that my sword upon thee shall approve And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 9)
Clubs, clubs! These lovers will not keep the peace.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 10)
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised, Gave you a dancing rapier by your side, Are you so desperate grown to threat your friends?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 11)
Go to. Have your lath glued within your sheath Till you know better how to handle it.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 12)
Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill have, Full well shalt thou perceive how much dare.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 13)
Ay, boy, grow you so brave?  Why, how now, lords?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 14)
So near the Emperor's palace dare you draw And maintain such a quarrel openly?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 15)
Full well wot the ground of all this grudge. would not for a million of gold The cause were known to them it most concerns, Nor would your noble mother for much more Be so dishonored in the court of Rome.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 16)
For shame, put up.  Not till have sheathed My rapier in his bosom, and withal Thrust those reproachful speeches down his throat That he hath breathed in my dishonor here.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 17)
For that am prepared and full resolved, Foul-spoken coward, that thund'rest with thy tongue And with thy weapon nothing dar'st perform.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 18)
Away, say! Now by the gods that warlike Goths adore, This petty brabble will undo us all.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 19)
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous It is to jet upon a prince's right?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 20)
What, is Lavinia then become so loose Or Bassianus so degenerate That for her love such quarrels may be broached Without controlment, justice, or revenge?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 21)
Young lords, beware! And should the Empress know This discord's ground, the music would not please.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 22)
care not, knew she and all the world. love Lavinia more than all the world.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 23)
Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 24)
Lavinia is thine elder brother's hope.   Why, are you mad?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 25)
Or know you not in Rome How furious and impatient they be, And cannot brook competitors in love?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 26)
tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths By this device.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 27)
Aaron, a thousand deaths Would propose to achieve her whom love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 28)
To achieve her how?  Why makes thou it so strange?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 29)
She is a woman, therefore may be wooed; She is a woman, therefore may be won; She is Lavinia, therefore must be loved.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 30)
What, man, more water glideth by the mill Than wots the miller of, and easy it is Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 31)
Though Bassianus be the Emperor's brother, Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 32)
Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.   Then why should he despair that knows to court it With words, fair looks, and liberality?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 33)
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 34)
Why, then, it seems some certain snatch or so Would serve your turns.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 35)
Ay, so the turn were served.  Aaron, thou hast hit it.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 36)
Would you had hit it too! Then should not we be tired with this ado.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 37)
Why, hark you, hark you! And are you such fools To square for this?(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 38)
Would it offend you then That both should speed?   Faith, not me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 39)
Nor me, so were one.   For shame, be friends, and join for that you jar.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 40)
'Tis policy and stratagem must do That you affect, and so must you resolve That what you cannot as you would achieve, You must perforce accomplish as you may.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 41)
Take this of me: Lucrece was not more chaste Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 42)
speedier course than ling'ring languishment Must we pursue, and have found the path.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 43)
My lords, a solemn hunting is in hand; There will the lovely Roman ladies troop.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 44)
The forest walks are wide and spacious, And many unfrequented plots there are, Fitted by kind for rape and villainy.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 45)
Single you thither then this dainty doe, And strike her home by force, if not by words.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 46)
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope. Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit To villainy and vengeance consecrate, Will we acquaint withal what we intend, And she shall file our engines with advice That will not suffer you to square yourselves, But to your wishes' height advance you both.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 47)
The Emperor's court is like the house of Fame, The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears; The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 48)
There speak and strike, brave boys, and take your turns.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 49)
There serve your lust, shadowed from heaven's eye, And revel in Lavinia's treasury.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 50)
Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice.   Sit fas aut nefas, till find the stream To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits, Per Stygia, per manes vehor.(Titus Andronicus, Act 0, Scene 51)
The hunt is up, the moon is bright and gray, The fields are fragrant, and the woods are green.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 0)
Uncouple here, and let us make a bay And wake the Emperor and his lovely bride, And rouse the Prince, and ring a hunter's peal, That all the court may echo with the noise.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 1)
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours, To attend the Emperor's person carefully.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 2)
have been troubled in my sleep this night, But dawning day new comfort hath inspired.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 3)
enter Saturninus, Tamora, Bassianus, Lavinia, Chiron,     Many good morrows to your Majesty;-- Madam, to you as many, and as good.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 4)
-- promised your Grace a hunter's peal.   And you have rung it lustily, my lords-- Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 5)
Lavinia, how say you?  say no. have been broad awake two hours and more.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 6)
Come on, then. Horse and chariots let us have, And to our sport.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 7)
Madam, now shall you see Our Roman hunting.  have dogs, my lord, Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase And climb the highest promontory top.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 8)
And have horse will follow where the game Makes way and runs like swallows o'er the plain.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 9)
Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound, But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground.(Titus Andronicus, Act 1, Scene 10)
He that had wit would think that had none, To bury so much gold under a tree And never after to inherit it.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 0)
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly Know that this gold must coin a stratagem Which, cunningly effected, will beget very excellent piece of villainy.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 1)
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest That have their alms out of the Empress' chest.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 2)
My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad, When everything doth make a gleeful boast?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 3)
The birds chant melody on every bush, The snakes lies rolled in the cheerful sun, The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind And make a checkered shadow on the ground.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 4)
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit, And whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds, Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns, As if a double hunt were heard at once, Let us sit down and mark their yellowing noise.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 5)
And after conflict such as was supposed The wand'ring prince and Dido once enjoyed When with a happy storm they were surprised, And curtained with a counsel-keeping cave, We may, each wreathed in the other's arms, Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber, Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds Be unto us as is a nurse's song Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 6)
Madam, though Venus govern your desires, Saturn is dominator over mine.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 7)
What signifies my deadly standing eye, My silence, and my cloudy melancholy, My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls Even as an adder when she doth unroll To do some fatal execution?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 8)
No, madam, these are no venereal signs. Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand, Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 9)
Hark, Tamora, the empress of my soul, Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee, This is the day of doom for Bassianus.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 10)
His Philomel must lose her tongue today, Thy sons make pillage of her chastity And wash their hands in Bassianus' blood.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 11)
Seest thou this letter? Take it up, pray thee, And give the King this fatal-plotted scroll.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 12)
Now, question me no more. We are espied. Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty, Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 13)
Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!   No more, great empress.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 14)
Bassianus comes. Be cross with him, and I'll go fetch thy sons To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 15)
Who have we here? Rome's royal empress, Unfurnished of her well-beseeming troop?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 16)
Or is it Dian, habited like her, Who hath abandoned her holy groves To see the general hunting in this forest?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 17)
Saucy controller of my private steps, Had the power that some say Dian had, Thy temples should be planted presently With horns, as was Acteon's, and the hounds Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs, Unmannerly intruder as thou art.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 18)
Under your patience, gentle empress, 'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning, And to be doubted that your Moor and you Are singled forth to try experiments.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 19)
Jove shield your husband from his hounds today! 'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 20)
Believe me, queen, your swarthy Cimmerian Doth make your honor of his body's hue, Spotted, detested, and abominable.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 21)
Why are you sequestered from all your train, Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed, And wandered hither to an obscure plot, Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor, If foul desire had not conducted you?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 22)
And being intercepted in your sport, Great reason that my noble lord be rated For sauciness.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 23)
--I pray you, let us hence, And let her joy her raven-colored love.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 24)
This valley fits the purpose passing well.   The King my brother shall have notice of this.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 25)
Ay, for these slips have made him noted long. Good king to be so mightily abused!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 26)
Why, have patience to endure all this.      How now, dear sovereign and our gracious mother, Why doth your Highness look so pale and wan?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 27)
Have not reason, think you, to look pale? These two have ticed me hither to this place, barren, detested vale you see it is; The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean, Overcome with moss and baleful mistletoe.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 28)
Here never shines the sun, here nothing breeds, Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 29)
And when they showed me this abhorred pit, They told me, here at dead time of the night thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes, Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins, Would make such fearful and confused cries As any mortal body hearing it Should straight fall mad, or else die suddenly.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 30)
No sooner had they told this hellish tale But straight they told me they would bind me here Unto the body of a dismal yew And leave me to this miserable death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 31)
And then they called me foul adulteress, Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms That ever ear did hear to such effect.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 32)
And had you not by wondrous fortune come, This vengeance on me had they executed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 33)
Revenge it as you love your mother's life, Or be you not henceforth called my children.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 34)
This is a witness that am thy son.   And this for me, struck home to show my strength.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 35)
Ay, come, Semiramis, nay, barbarous Tamora, For no name fits thy nature but thy own!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 36)
Give me the poniard! You shall know, my boys, Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 37)
Stay, madam, here is more belongs to her. First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 38)
This minion stood upon her chastity, Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty, And with that painted hope braves your mightiness; And shall she carry this unto her grave?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 39)
And if she do, would were an eunuch! Drag hence her husband to some secret hole, And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 40)
But when you have the honey you desire, Let not this wasp outlive, us both to sting.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 41)
warrant you, madam, we will make that sure.-- Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy That nice-preserved honesty of yours.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 42)
Tamora, thou bearest a woman's face--   will not hear her speak.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 43)
Away with her.   Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 44)
Listen, fair madam. Let it be your glory To see her tears, but be your heart to them As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 45)
When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam? do not learn her wrath; she taught it thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 46)
The milk thou suck'st from her did turn to marble.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 47)
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny. Yet every mother breeds not sons alike.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 48)
Do thou entreat her show a woman's pity.   What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 49)
'Tis true; the raven doth not hatch a lark. Yet have heard--O, could find it now!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 50)
-- The lion, moved with pity, did endure To have his princely paws pared all away.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 51)
Some say that ravens foster forlorn children, The whilst their own birds famish in their nests.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 52)
be to me, though thy hard heart say no, Nothing so kind, but something pitiful.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 53)
know not what it means.--Away with her.   let me teach thee!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 54)
For my father's sake, That gave thee life when well he might have slain thee, Be not obdurate; open thy deaf ears.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 55)
Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me, Even for his sake am pitiless.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 56)
-- Remember, boys, poured forth tears in vain To save your brother from the sacrifice, But fierce Andronicus would not relent.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 57)
Therefore away with her, and use her as you will; The worse to her, the better loved of me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 58)
Tamora, be called a gentle queen, And with thine own hands kill me in this place!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 59)
For 'tis not life that have begged so long; Poor was slain when Bassianus died.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 60)
What begg'st thou, then? Fond woman, let me go!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 61)
'Tis present death beg, and one thing more That womanhood denies my tongue to tell.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 62)
keep me from their worse-than-killing lust, And tumble me into some loathsome pit Where never man's eye may behold my body.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 63)
Do this, and be a charitable murderer.   So should rob my sweet sons of their fee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 64)
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.   Away, for thou hast stayed us here too long!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 65)
No grace, no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature, The blot and enemy to our general name, Confusion fall--   Nay, then, I'll stop your mouth.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 66)
--Bring thou her husband. This is the hole where Aaron bid us hide him.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 67)
Farewell, my sons. See that you make her sure.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 68)
Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed Till all the Andronici be made away.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 69)
Now will hence to seek my lovely Moor, And let my spleenful sons this trull deflower.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 70)
Come on, my lords, the better foot before.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 71)
Straight will bring you to the loathsome pit Where espied the panther fast asleep.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 72)
My sight is very dull, whate'er it bodes.   And mine, promise you.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 73)
Were it not for shame, Well could leave our sport to sleep awhile.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 74)
What, art thou fallen? What subtle hole is this, Whose mouth is covered with rude-growing briers Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood As fresh as morning dew distilled on flowers?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 75)
very fatal place it seems to me. Speak, brother! Hast thou hurt thee with the fall?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 76)
brother, with the dismal'st object hurt That ever eye with sight made heart lament!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 77)
Now will fetch the King to find them here, That he thereby may have a likely guess How these were they that made away his brother.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 78)
Why dost not comfort me and help me out From this unhallowed and bloodstained hole?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 79)
am surprised with an uncouth fear. chilling sweat o'erruns my trembling joints.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 80)
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.   To prove thou hast a true-divining heart, Aaron and thou look down into this den And see a fearful sight of blood and death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 81)
Aaron is gone, and my compassionate heart Will not permit mine eyes once to behold The thing whereat it trembles by surmise.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 82)
tell me who it is, for ne'er till now Was a child to fear know not what.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 83)
Lord Bassianus lies berayed in blood, All on a heap, like to a slaughtered lamb, In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 84)
If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?   Upon his bloody finger he doth wear precious ring that lightens all this hole, Which like a taper in some monument Doth shine upon the dead man's earthy cheeks And shows the ragged entrails of this pit.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 85)
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 86)
brother, help me with thy fainting hand-- If fear hath made thee faint as me it hath-- Out of this fell devouring receptacle, As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 87)
Reach me thy hand, that may help thee out, Or, wanting strength to do thee so much good, may be plucked into the swallowing womb Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 88)
have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.   Nor no strength to climb without thy help.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 89)
Thy hand once more. will not loose again Till thou art here aloft or below.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 90)
Thou canst not come to me. come to thee.        Along with me!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 91)
I'll see what hole is here And what he is that now is leapt into it.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 92)
-- Say, who art thou that lately didst descend Into this gaping hollow of the earth?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 93)
The unhappy sons of old Andronicus, Brought hither in a most unlucky hour To find thy brother Bassianus dead.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 94)
My brother dead! know thou dost but jest. He and his lady both are at the lodge Upon the north side of this pleasant chase.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 95)
'Tis not an hour since left them there.   We know not where you left them all alive, But, out alas, here have we found him dead.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 96)
Where is my lord the King?   Here, Tamora, though grieved with killing grief.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 97)
Where is thy brother Bassianus?   Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 98)
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.   Then all too late bring this fatal writ, The complot of this timeless tragedy, And wonder greatly that man's face can fold In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 99)
An if we miss to meet him handsomely, Sweet huntsman--Bassianus 'tis we mean-- Do thou so much as dig the grave for him; Thou know'st our meaning.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 100)
Look for thy reward Among the nettles at the elder tree Which overshades the mouth of that same pit Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 101)
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends. Tamora, was ever heard the like?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 102)
This is the pit, and this the elder tree.-- Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out That should have murdered Bassianus here.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 103)
My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.   Two of thy whelps, fell curs of bloody kind, Have here bereft my brother of his life.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 104)
-- Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison. There let them bide until we have devised Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 105)
What, are they in this pit? wondrous thing! How easily murder is discovered.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 106)
High Emperor, upon my feeble knee beg this boon with tears not lightly shed, That this fell fault of my accursed sons-- Accursed if the faults be proved in them--   If it be proved!(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 107)
You see it is apparent. Who found this letter? Tamora, was it you?(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 108)
Andronicus himself did take it up.   did, my lord, yet let me be their bail, For by my father's reverend tomb vow They shall be ready at your Highness' will To answer their suspicion with their lives.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 109)
Thou shalt not bail them. See thou follow me.-- Some bring the murdered body, some the murderers.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 110)
Let them not speak a word. The guilt is plain. For, by my soul, were there worse end than death, That end upon them should be executed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 111)
Andronicus, will entreat the King. Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 112)
Come, Lucius, come. Stay not to talk with them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 2, Scene 113)
with Lavinia, her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out,     So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak, Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravished thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 0)
Write down thy mind; bewray thy meaning so, An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 1)
See how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.   Go home.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 2)
Call for sweet water; wash thy hands.   She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash; And so let's leave her to her silent walks.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 3)
An 'twere my cause, should go hang myself.   If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 4)
Who is this? My niece, that flies away so fast?(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 5)
-- Cousin, a word. Where is your husband? If do dream, would all my wealth would wake me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 6)
If do wake, some planet strike me down That may slumber an eternal sleep.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 7)
Speak, gentle niece. What stern ungentle hands Hath lopped and hewed and made thy body bare Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in, And might not gain so great a happiness As half thy love?(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 8)
Why dost not speak to me? Alas, a crimson river of warm blood, Like to a bubbling fountain stirred with wind, Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips, Coming and going with thy honey breath.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 9)
But sure some Tereus hath deflowered thee, And lest thou shouldst detect him cut thy tongue.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 10)
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame, And notwithstanding all this loss of blood, As from a conduit with three issuing spouts, Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face, Blushing to be encountered with a cloud.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 11)
Shall speak for thee, shall say 'tis so? that knew thy heart, and knew the beast, That might rail at him to ease my mind.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 12)
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopped, Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 13)
Fair Philomela, why she but lost her tongue, And in a tedious sampler sewed her mind; But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 14)
craftier Tereus, cousin, hast thou met, And he hath cut those pretty fingers off That could have better sewed than Philomel.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 15)
had the monster seen those lily hands Tremble like aspen leaves upon a lute And make the silken strings delight to kiss them, He would not then have touched them for his life.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 16)
Or had he heard the heavenly harmony Which that sweet tongue hath made, He would have dropped his knife and fell asleep, As Cerberus at the Thracian poet's feet.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 17)
Come, let us go and make thy father blind, For such a sight will blind a father's eye.(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 18)
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads; What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 19)
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee. could our mourning ease thy misery!(Titus Andronicus, Act 3, Scene 20)
(Quintus and Martius) bound, passing on the stage to     Hear me, grave fathers; noble tribunes, stay.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 0)
For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent In dangerous wars whilst you securely slept; For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed, For all the frosty nights that have watched, And for these bitter tears which now you see, Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks, Be pitiful to my condemned sons, Whose souls is not corrupted as 'tis thought.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 1)
For two-and-twenty sons never wept Because they died in honor's lofty bed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 2)
For these, tribunes, in the dust write My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 3)
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite. My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 4)
Earth, will befriend thee more with rain That shall distil from these two ancient ruins Than youthful April shall with all his showers.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 5)
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still; In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow And keep eternal springtime on thy face, So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 6)
reverend tribunes, gentle aged men, Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death, And let me say, that never wept before, My tears are now prevailing orators.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 7)
noble father, you lament in vain. The Tribunes hear you not; no man is by, And you recount your sorrows to a stone.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 8)
Ah, Lucius, for thy brothers let me plead.-- Grave tribunes, once more entreat of you--   My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 9)
Why, 'tis no matter, man. If they did hear, They would not mark me; if they did mark, They would not pity me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 10)
Yet plead must, And bootless unto them. Therefore tell my sorrows to the stones, Who, though they cannot answer my distress, Yet in some sort they are better than the Tribunes, For that they will not intercept my tale.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 11)
When do weep, they humbly at my feet Receive my tears and seem to weep with me, And were they but attired in grave weeds, Rome could afford no tribunes like to these.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 12)
stone is soft as wax, tribunes more hard than stones; stone is silent and offendeth not, And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 13)
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 14)
To rescue my two brothers from their death, For which attempt the Judges have pronounced My everlasting doom of banishment.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 15)
happy man, they have befriended thee! Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 16)
Tigers must prey, and Rome affords no prey But me and mine.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 17)
How happy art thou then From these devourers to be banished.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 18)
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?      Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep, Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 19)
bring consuming sorrow to thine age.   Will it consume me?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 20)
Let me see it, then.   This was thy daughter.  Why, Marcus, so she is.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 21)
Ay me, this object kills me!   Faint-hearted boy, arise and look upon her.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 22)
-- Speak, Lavinia. What accursed hand Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 23)
What fool hath added water to the sea Or brought a faggot to bright-burning Troy?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 24)
My grief was at the height before thou cam'st, And now like Nilus it disdaineth bounds.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 25)
-- Give me a sword. I'll chop off my hands too, For they have fought for Rome and all in vain; And they have nursed this woe in feeding life; In bootless prayer have they been held up, And they have served me to effectless use.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 26)
Now all the service require of them Is that the one will help to cut the other.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 27)
-- 'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands, For hands to do Rome service is but vain.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 28)
Speak, gentle sister. Who hath martyred thee?   that delightful engine of her thoughts, That blabbed them with such pleasing eloquence, Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage Where, like a sweet melodious bird, it sung Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 29)
say thou for her who hath done this deed!   thus found her straying in the park, Seeking to hide herself as doth the deer That hath received some unrecuring wound.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 30)
It was my dear, and he that wounded her Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 31)
For now stand as one upon a rock, Environed with a wilderness of sea, Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave, Expecting ever when some envious surge Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 32)
This way to death my wretched sons are gone; Here stands my other son a banished man, And here my brother, weeping at my woes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 33)
But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 34)
Had but seen thy picture in this plight It would have madded me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 35)
What shall do, Now behold thy lively body so? Thou hast no hands to wipe away thy tears, Nor tongue to tell me who hath martyred thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 36)
Thy husband he is dead, and for his death Thy brothers are condemned, and dead by this.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 37)
-- Look, Marcus!--Ah, son Lucius, look on her! When did name her brothers, then fresh tears Stood on her cheeks as doth the honeydew Upon a gathered lily almost withered.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 38)
Perchance she weeps because they killed her husband, Perchance because she knows them innocent.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 39)
If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful, Because the law hath ta'en revenge on them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 40)
-- No, no, they would not do so foul a deed. Witness the sorrow that their sister makes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 41)
-- Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips, Or make some sign how may do thee ease.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 42)
Shall thy good uncle and thy brother Lucius And thou and sit round about some fountain, Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks, How they are stained like meadows yet not dry With miry slime left on them by a flood?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 43)
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness And made a brine pit with our bitter tears?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 44)
Or shall we cut away our hands like thine? Or shall we bite our tongues and in dumb shows Pass the remainder of our hateful days?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 45)
What shall we do? Let us that have our tongues Plot some device of further misery To make us wondered at in time to come.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 46)
Sweet father, cease your tears, for at your grief See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 47)
Patience, dear niece.--Good Titus, dry thine eyes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 48)
Ah, Marcus, Marcus! Brother, well wot Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine, For thou, poor man, hast drowned it with thine own.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 49)
Ah, my Lavinia, will wipe thy cheeks.   Mark, Marcus, mark.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 50)
understand her signs. Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say That to her brother which said to thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 51)
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet, Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 52)
what a sympathy of woe is this, As far from help as limbo is from bliss.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 53)
Titus Andronicus, my lord the Emperor Sends thee this word, that if thou love thy sons, Let Marcus, Lucius, or thyself, old Titus, Or any one of you, chop off your hand And send it to the King; he for the same Will send thee hither both thy sons alive, And that shall be the ransom for their fault.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 54)
gracious emperor! gentle Aaron! Did ever raven sing so like a lark, That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 55)
With all my heart I'll send the Emperor my hand. Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 56)
Stay, father, for that noble hand of thine, That hath thrown down so many enemies, Shall not be sent.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 57)
My hand will serve the turn. My youth can better spare my blood than you, And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 58)
Which of your hands hath not defended Rome And reared aloft the bloody battleax, Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 59)
none of both but are of high desert. My hand hath been but idle; let it serve To ransom my two nephews from their death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 60)
Then have kept it to a worthy end.   Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along, For fear they die before their pardon come.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 61)
My hand shall go.  By heaven, it shall not go!   Sirs, strive no more.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 62)
Such withered herbs as these Are meet for plucking up, and therefore mine.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 63)
Sweet father, if shall be thought thy son, Let me redeem my brothers both from death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 64)
And for our father's sake and mother's care, Now let me show a brother's love to thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 65)
Agree between you. will spare my hand.  Then I'll go fetch an ax.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 66)
But will use the ax.   Come hither, Aaron. I'll deceive them both.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 67)
Lend me thy hand, and will give thee mine.   If that be called deceit, will be honest And never whilst live deceive men so.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 68)
But I'll deceive you in another sort, And that you'll say ere half an hour pass.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 69)
Now stay your strife. What shall be is dispatched.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 70)
-- Good Aaron, give his Majesty my hand. Tell him it was a hand that warded him From thousand dangers.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 71)
Bid him bury it. More hath it merited; that let it have.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 72)
As for my sons, say account of them As jewels purchased at an easy price, And yet dear, too, because bought mine own.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 73)
go, Andronicus, and for thy hand Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 74)
Their heads, mean. how this villainy Doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 75)
Let fools do good and fair men call for grace; Aaron will have his soul black like his face.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 76)
here lift this one hand up to heaven, And bow this feeble ruin to the earth.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 77)
If any power pities wretched tears, To that call.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 78)
What, wouldst thou kneel with me? Do, then, dear heart, for heaven shall hear our prayers, Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 79)
brother, speak with possibility, And do not break into these deep extremes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 80)
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom? Then be my passions bottomless with them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 81)
But yet let reason govern thy lament.   If there were reason for these miseries, Then into limits could bind my woes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 82)
When heaven doth weep, doth not the Earth o'erflow?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 83)
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad, Threat'ning the welkin with his big-swoll'n face?(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 84)
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil? am the sea.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 85)
Hark how her sighs doth flow! She is the weeping welkin, the Earth.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 86)
Then must my sea be moved with her sighs; Then must my Earth with her continual tears Become a deluge, overflowed and drowned, Forwhy my bowels cannot hide her woes But like a drunkard must vomit them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 87)
Then give me leave, for losers will have leave To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 88)
Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid For that good hand thou sent'st the Emperor.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 89)
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons, And here's thy hand in scorn to thee sent back.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 90)
Thy grief their sports, thy resolution mocked, That woe is me to think upon thy woes More than remembrance of my father's death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 91)
Now let hot Etna cool in Sicily, And be my heart an everburning hell!(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 92)
These miseries are more than may be borne. To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal, But sorrow flouted at is double death.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 93)
Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound And yet detested life not shrink thereat!(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 94)
That ever death should let life bear his name, Where life hath no more interest but to breathe.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 95)
Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless As frozen water to a starved snake.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 96)
When will this fearful slumber have an end?   Now farewell, flatt'ry; die, Andronicus.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 97)
Thou dost not slumber. See thy two sons' heads, Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here, Thy other banished son with this dear sight Struck pale and bloodless; and thy brother, Even like a stony image cold and numb.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 98)
Ah, now no more will control thy griefs. Rent off thy silver hair, thy other hand, Gnawing with thy teeth, and be this dismal sight The closing up of our most wretched eyes.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 99)
Now is a time to storm. Why art thou still?  Ha, ha, ha!(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 100)
Why dost thou laugh? It fits not with this hour.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 101)
Why, have not another tear to shed. Besides, this sorrow is an enemy And would usurp upon my wat'ry eyes And make them blind with tributary tears.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 102)
Then which way shall find Revenge's cave? For these two heads do seem to speak to me And threat me shall never come to bliss Till all these mischiefs be returned again Even in their throats that hath committed them.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 103)
Come, let me see what task have to do. You heavy people, circle me about That may turn me to each one of you And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 104)
The vow is made. Come, brother, take a head, And in this hand the other will bear.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 105)
-- And, Lavinia, thou shalt be employed in these arms.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 106)
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 107)
-- As for thee, boy, go get thee from my sight. Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 108)
Hie to the Goths and raise an army there. And if you love me, as think you do, Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 109)
Farewell, Andronicus, my noble father, The woefull'st man that ever lived in Rome.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 110)
Farewell, proud Rome, till Lucius come again. He loves his pledges dearer than his life.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 111)
Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister. would thou wert as thou tofore hast been!(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 112)
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives But in oblivion and hateful griefs.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 113)
If Lucius live he will requite your wrongs And make proud Saturnine and his empress Beg at the gates like Tarquin and his queen.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 114)
Now will to the Goths and raise a power To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine.(Titus Andronicus, Act 14, Scene 115)
banquet. Enter Titus Andronicus, Marcus, Lavinia,     So, so.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 0)
Now sit, and look you eat no more Than will preserve just so much strength in us As will revenge these bitter woes of ours.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 1)
Marcus, unknit that sorrow-wreathen knot. Thy niece and poor creatures, want our hands And cannot passionate our tenfold grief With folded arms.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 2)
This poor right hand of mine Is left to tyrannize upon my breast, Who, when my heart, all mad with misery, Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh, Then thus thump it down.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 3)
-- Thou map of woe, that thus dost talk in signs, When thy poor heart beats with outrageous beating, Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 4)
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans; Or get some little knife between thy teeth And just against thy heart make thou a hole, That all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall May run into that sink and, soaking in, Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 5)
Fie, brother, fie! Teach her not thus to lay Such violent hands upon her tender life.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 6)
How now! Has sorrow made thee dote already? Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but What violent hands can she lay on her life?(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 7)
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands, To bid Aeneas tell the tale twice o'er How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 8)
handle not the theme, to talk of hands, Lest we remember still that we have none.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 9)
-- Fie, fie, how franticly square my talk, As if we should forget we had no hands If Marcus did not name the word of hands!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 10)
Come, let's fall to, and, gentle girl, eat this. Here is no drink!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 11)
--Hark, Marcus, what she says. can interpret all her martyred signs.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 12)
She says she drinks no other drink but tears Brewed with her sorrow, mashed upon her cheeks.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 13)
-- Speechless complainer, will learn thy thought. In thy dumb action will be as perfect As begging hermits in their holy prayers.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 14)
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven, Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign, But of these will wrest an alphabet And by still practice learn to know thy meaning.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 15)
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 16)
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.   Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved, Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 17)
Peace, tender sapling. Thou art made of tears, And tears will quickly melt thy life away.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 18)
What dost thou strike at, Marcus, with thy knife?(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 19)
At that that have killed, my lord, a fly.   Out on thee, murderer!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 20)
Thou kill'st my heart. Mine eyes are cloyed with view of tyranny; deed of death done on the innocent Becomes not Titus' brother.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 21)
Get thee gone. see thou art not for my company.   Alas, my lord, have but killed a fly.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 22)
"But"? How if that fly had a father and mother?(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 23)
How would he hang his slender gilded wings And buzz lamenting doings in the air!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 24)
Poor harmless fly, That, with his pretty buzzing melody, Came here to make us merry!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 25)
And thou hast killed him.   Pardon me, sir. It was a black, ill-favored fly, Like to the Empress' Moor.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 26)
Therefore killed him.   Then pardon me for reprehending thee, For thou hast done a charitable deed.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 27)
Give me thy knife. will insult on him, Flattering myself as if it were the Moor Come hither purposely to poison me.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 28)
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora. Ah, sirrah!(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 29)
Yet think we are not brought so low But that between us we can kill a fly That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 30)
Alas, poor man, grief has so wrought on him He takes false shadows for true substances.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 31)
Come, take away.--Lavinia, go with me. I'll to thy closet and go read with thee Sad stories chanced in the times of old.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 32)
-- Come, boy, and go with me. Thy sight is young, And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.(Titus Andronicus, Act 15, Scene 33)
Beseech you, sir, be merry. You have cause-- So have we all--of joy, for our escape Is much beyond our loss.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 0)
Our hint of woe Is common; every day some sailor's wife, The masters of some merchant, and the merchant Have just our theme of woe.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 1)
But for the miracle-- mean our preservation--few in millions Can speak like us.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 2)
Then wisely, good sir, weigh Our sorrow with our comfort.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 3)
Prithee, peace.  He receives comfort like cold porridge.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 4)
The visitor will not give him o'er so.  Look, he's winding up the watch of his wit.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 5)
By and by it will strike.  Sir--  One. Tell.  When every grief is entertained that's offered, comes to th' entertainer--  dollar.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 6)
Dolor comes to him indeed. You have spoken truer than you purposed.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 7)
You have taken it wiselier than meant you should.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 8)
Therefore, my lord--  Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 9)
prithee, spare.  Well, have done. But yet--  He will be talking.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 10)
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good wager, first begins to crow?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 11)
The old cock.  The cockerel.  Done. The wager?  laughter.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 12)
match!  Though this island seem to be desert--  Ha, ha, ha.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 13)
So. You're paid.  Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible--  Yet--  Yet--  He could not miss 't.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 14)
It must needs be of subtle, tender, and delicate temperance.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 15)
Temperance was a delicate wench.  Ay, and a subtle, as he most learnedly delivered.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 16)
The air breathes upon us here most sweetly.  As if it had lungs, and rotten ones.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 17)
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen.  Here is everything advantageous to life.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 18)
True, save means to live.  Of that there's none, or little.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 19)
How lush and lusty the grass looks! How green!  The ground indeed is tawny.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 20)
With an eye of green in 't.  He misses not much.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 21)
No, he doth but mistake the truth totally.  But the rarity of it is, which is indeed almost beyond credit--  As many vouched rarities are.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 22)
That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and gloss, being rather new-dyed than stained with salt water.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 23)
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not say he lies?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 24)
Ay, or very falsely pocket up his report.  Methinks our garments are now as fresh as when we put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of the King's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 25)
'Twas a sweet marriage, and we prosper well in our return.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 26)
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to their queen.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 27)
Not since widow Dido's time.  Widow? pox o' that!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 28)
How came that "widow" in? Widow Dido!  What if he had said "widower Aeneas" too?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 29)
Good Lord, how you take it!  "Widow Dido," said you?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 30)
You make me study of that. She was of Carthage, not of Tunis.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 31)
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.  Carthage?  assure you, Carthage.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 32)
His word is more than the miraculous harp.  He hath raised the wall, and houses too.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 33)
What impossible matter will he make easy next?  think he will carry this island home in his pocket and give it his son for an apple.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 34)
And sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring forth more islands.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 35)
Ay.  Why, in good time.  Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage of your daughter, who is now queen.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 36)
And the rarest that e'er came there.  Bate, beseech you, widow Dido.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 37)
widow Dido? Ay, widow Dido.  Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day wore it?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 38)
mean, in a sort.  That "sort" was well fished for.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 39)
When wore it at your daughter's marriage.   You cram these words into mine ears against The stomach of my sense.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 40)
Would had never Married my daughter there, for coming thence My son is lost, and, in my rate, she too, Who is so far from Italy removed ne'er again shall see her.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 41)
--O, thou mine heir Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish Hath made his meal on thee?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 42)
Sir, he may live. saw him beat the surges under him And ride upon their backs.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 43)
He trod the water, Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted The surge most swoll'n that met him.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 44)
His bold head 'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oared Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke To th' shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bowed, As stooping to relieve him.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 45)
not doubt He came alive to land.  No, no, he's gone.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 46)
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss, That would not bless our Europe with your daughter, But rather lose her to an African, Where she at least is banished from your eye, Who hath cause to wet the grief on 't.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 47)
Prithee, peace.   You were kneeled to and importuned otherwise By all of us; and the fair soul herself Weighed between loathness and obedience at Which end o' th' beam should bow.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 48)
We have lost your son, fear, forever. Milan and Naples have More widows in them of this business' making Than we bring men to comfort them.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 49)
The fault's your own.  So is the dear'st o' th' loss.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 50)
My lord Sebastian, The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness And time to speak it in.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 51)
You rub the sore When you should bring the plaster.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 52)
Very well.  And most chirurgeonly.   It is foul weather in us all, good sir, When you are cloudy.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 53)
Foul weather?  Very foul.   Had plantation of this isle, my lord--   He'd sow 't with nettle seed.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 54)
Or docks, or mallows.   And were the king on 't, what would do?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 55)
Scape being drunk, for want of wine.   th' commonwealth would by contraries Execute all things, for no kind of traffic Would admit; no name of magistrate; Letters should not be known; riches, poverty, And use of service, none; contract, succession, Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none; No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil; No occupation; all men idle, all, And women too, but innocent and pure; No sovereignty--  Yet he would be king on 't.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 56)
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the beginning.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 57)
All things in common nature should produce Without sweat or endeavor; treason, felony, Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine Would not have; but nature should bring forth Of its own kind all foison, all abundance, To feed my innocent people.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 58)
No marrying 'mong his subjects?  None, man, all idle: whores and knaves.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 59)
would with such perfection govern, sir, excel the Golden Age.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 60)
'Save his Majesty!   Long live Gonzalo!  And do you mark me, sir?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 61)
Prithee, no more. Thou dost talk nothing to me.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 62)
do well believe your Highness, and did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen, who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that they always use to laugh at nothing.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 63)
'Twas you we laughed at.  Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing to you.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 64)
So you may continue, and laugh at nothing still.  What a blow was there given!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 65)
An it had not fallen flatlong.  You are gentlemen of brave mettle.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 66)
You would lift the moon out of her sphere if she would continue in it five weeks without changing.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 67)
We would so, and then go a-batfowling.  Nay, good my lord, be not angry.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 68)
No, warrant you, will not adventure my discretion so weakly.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 69)
Will you laugh me asleep? For am very heavy.  Go sleep, and hear us.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 70)
What, all so soon asleep? wish mine eyes Would, with themselves, shut up my thoughts.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 71)
find They are inclined to do so.  Please you, sir, Do not omit the heavy offer of it.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 72)
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth, It is a comforter.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 73)
We two, my lord, Will guard your person while you take your rest, And watch your safety.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 74)
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.    What a strange drowsiness possesses them!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 75)
It is the quality o' th' climate.  Why Doth it not then our eyelids sink?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 76)
find Not myself disposed to sleep.  Nor My spirits are nimble.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 77)
They fell together all, as by consent. They dropped as by a thunderstroke.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 78)
What might, Worthy Sebastian, what might--? No more.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 79)
And yet methinks see it in thy face What thou shouldst be.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 80)
Th' occasion speaks thee, and My strong imagination sees a crown Dropping upon thy head.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 81)
What, art thou waking?   Do you not hear me speak?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 82)
do, and surely It is a sleepy language, and thou speak'st Out of thy sleep.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 83)
What is it thou didst say? This is a strange repose, to be asleep With eyes wide open--standing, speaking, moving-- And yet so fast asleep.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 84)
Noble Sebastian, Thou let'st thy fortune sleep, die rather, wink'st Whiles thou art waking.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 85)
Thou dost snore distinctly. There's meaning in thy snores.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 86)
am more serious than my custom. You Must be so too, if heed me; which to do Trebles thee o'er.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 87)
Well, am standing water.   I'll teach you how to flow.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 88)
Do so. To ebb Hereditary sloth instructs me.   If you but knew how you the purpose cherish Whiles thus you mock it, how in stripping it You more invest it.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 89)
Ebbing men indeed Most often do so near the bottom run By their own fear or sloth.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 90)
Prithee, say on. The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim matter from thee, and a birth indeed Which throes thee much to yield.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 91)
Thus, sir: Although this lord of weak remembrance--this, Who shall be of as little memory When he is earthed--hath here almost persuaded-- For he's a spirit of persuasion, only Professes to persuade--the King his son's alive, 'Tis as impossible that he's undrowned As he that sleeps here swims.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 92)
have no hope That he's undrowned.  out of that no hope What great hope have you!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 93)
No hope that way is Another way so high a hope that even Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond, But doubt discovery there.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 94)
Will you grant with me That Ferdinand is drowned?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 95)
He's gone.  Then tell me, Who's the next heir of Naples?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 96)
Claribel.   She that is Queen of Tunis; she that dwells Ten leagues beyond man's life; she that from Naples Can have no note, unless the sun were post-- The man i' th' moon's too slow--till newborn chins Be rough and razorable; she that from whom We all were sea-swallowed, though some cast again, And by that destiny to perform an act Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come In yours and my discharge.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 97)
What stuff is this? How say you? 'Tis true my brother's daughter's Queen of Tunis, So is she heir of Naples, 'twixt which regions There is some space.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 98)
space whose ev'ry cubit Seems to cry out "How shall that Claribel Measure us back to Naples?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 99)
Keep in Tunis And let Sebastian wake." Say this were death That now hath seized them, why, they were no worse Than now they are.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 100)
There be that can rule Naples As well as he that sleeps, lords that can prate As amply and unnecessarily As this Gonzalo.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 101)
myself could make chough of as deep chat. that you bore The mind that do, what a sleep were this For your advancement!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 102)
Do you understand me?   Methinks do.  And how does your content Tender your own good fortune?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 103)
remember You did supplant your brother Prospero.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 104)
True, And look how well my garments sit upon me, Much feater than before.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 105)
My brother's servants Were then my fellows; now they are my men.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 106)
But, for your conscience?   Ay, sir, where lies that?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 107)
If 'twere a kibe, 'Twould put me to my slipper, but feel not This deity in my bosom.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 108)
Twenty consciences That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they And melt ere they molest!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 109)
Here lies your brother, No better than the earth he lies upon.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 110)
If he were that which now he's like--that's dead-- Whom with this obedient steel, three inches of it, Can lay to bed forever; whiles you, doing thus, To the perpetual wink for aye might put This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who Should not upbraid our course.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 111)
For all the rest, They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 112)
They'll tell the clock to any business that We say befits the hour.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 113)
Thy case, dear friend, Shall be my precedent: as thou got'st Milan, I'll come by Naples.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 114)
Draw thy sword. One stroke Shall free thee from the tribute which thou payest, And the King shall love thee.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 115)
Draw together, And when rear my hand, do you the like To fall it on Gonzalo.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 116)
but one word.       My master through his art foresees the danger That you, his friend, are in, and sends me forth-- For else his project dies--to keep them living.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 117)
While you here do snoring lie, Open-eyed conspiracy His time doth take.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 118)
If of life you keep a care, Shake off slumber and beware.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 119)
Awake, awake!  Then let us both be sudden.  Now, good angels preserve the King!(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 120)
Why, how now, ho! Awake? Why are you drawn? Wherefore this ghastly looking?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 121)
What's the matter?   Whiles we stood here securing your repose, Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing Like bulls, or rather lions.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 122)
Did 't not wake you? It struck mine ear most terribly.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 123)
heard nothing.   'twas a din to fright a monster's ear, To make an earthquake.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 124)
Sure, it was the roar Of a whole herd of lions.  Heard you this, Gonzalo?(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 125)
Upon mine honor, sir, heard a humming, And that a strange one too, which did awake me.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 126)
shaked you, sir, and cried. As mine eyes opened, saw their weapons drawn.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 127)
There was a noise, That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard, Or that we quit this place.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 128)
Let's draw our weapons.   Lead off this ground, and let's make further search For my poor son.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 129)
Heavens keep him from these beasts, For he is, sure, i' th' island.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 130)
Lead away.   Prospero my lord shall know what have done.(The Tempest, Act 0, Scene 131)
2         All the infections that the sun sucks up From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make him By inchmeal a disease!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 0)
His spirits hear me, And yet needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch, Fright me with urchin-shows, pitch me i' th' mire, Nor lead me like a firebrand in the dark Out of my way, unless he bid 'em.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 1)
But For every trifle are they set upon me, Sometimes like apes, that mow and chatter at me And after bite me; then like hedgehogs, which Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount Their pricks at my footfall.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 2)
Sometime am All wound with adders, who with cloven tongues Do hiss me into madness.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 3)
Lo, now, lo! Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me For bringing wood in slowly.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 4)
I'll fall flat. Perchance he will not mind me.      Here's neither bush nor shrub to bear off any weather at all.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 5)
And another storm brewing; hear it sing i' th' wind.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 6)
Yond same black cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul bombard that would shed his liquor.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 7)
If it should thunder as it did before, know not where to hide my head.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 8)
Yond same cloud cannot choose but fall by pailfuls.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 9)
What have we here, a man or a fish? Dead or alive?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 10)
fish, he smells like a fish--a very ancient and fishlike smell, a kind of not-of-the-newest poor-John.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 11)
strange fish. Were in England now, as once was, and had but this fish painted, not a holiday fool there but would give a piece of silver.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 12)
There would this monster make a man. Any strange beast there makes a man.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 13)
When they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they will lay out ten to see a dead Indian.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 14)
Legged like a man, and his fins like arms! Warm, o' my troth!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 15)
do now let loose my opinion, hold it no longer: this is no fish, but an islander that hath lately suffered by a thunderbolt.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 16)
Alas, the storm is come again. My best way is to creep under his gaberdine.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 17)
There is no other shelter hereabout. Misery acquaints a man with strange bedfellows.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 18)
will here shroud till the dregs of the storm be past.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 19)
shall no more to sea, to sea. Here shall die ashore-- This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's funeral.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 20)
Well, here's my comfort.   The master, the swabber, the boatswain, and The gunner and his mate, Loved Mall, Meg, and Marian, and Margery, But none of us cared for Kate.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 21)
For she had a tongue with a tang, Would cry to a sailor "Go hang!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 22)
" She loved not the savor of tar nor of pitch, Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 23)
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang! This is a scurvy tune too.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 24)
But here's my comfort.   Do not torment me!  What's the matter?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 25)
Have we devils here? Do you put tricks upon 's with savages and men of Ind?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 26)
Ha? have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your four legs, for it hath been said "As proper a man as ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground," and it shall be said so again while Stephano breathes at' nostrils.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 27)
The spirit torments me.  This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who hath got, as take it, an ague.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 28)
Where the devil should he learn our language? will give him some relief, if it be but for that.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 29)
If can recover him and keep him tame and get to Naples with him, he's a present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 30)
Do not torment me, prithee. I'll bring my wood home faster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 31)
He's in his fit now, and does not talk after the wisest.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 32)
He shall taste of my bottle. If he have never drunk wine afore, it will go near to remove his fit.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 33)
If can recover him and keep him tame, will not take too much for him.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 34)
He shall pay for him that hath him, and that soundly.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 35)
Thou dost me yet but little hurt. Thou wilt anon; know it by thy trembling.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 36)
Now Prosper works upon thee.  Come on your ways. Open your mouth.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 37)
Here is that which will give language to you, cat.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 38)
Open your mouth. This will shake your shaking, can tell you, and that soundly.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 39)
You cannot tell who's your friend. Open your chaps again.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 40)
should know that voice. It should be--but he is drowned, and these are devils.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 41)
defend me!  Four legs and two voices--a most delicate monster!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 42)
His forward voice now is to speak well of his friend.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 43)
His backward voice is to utter foul speeches and to detract.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 44)
If all the wine in my bottle will recover him, will help his ague.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 45)
Come. Amen! will pour some in thy other mouth.  Stephano!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 46)
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy, this is a devil, and no monster!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 47)
will leave him; have no long spoon.  Stephano! If thou be'st Stephano, touch me and speak to me, for am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy good friend Trinculo.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 48)
If thou be'st Trinculo, come forth. I'll pull thee by the lesser legs.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 49)
If any be Trinculo's legs, these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 50)
How cam'st thou to be the siege of this mooncalf?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 51)
Can he vent Trinculos?  took him to be killed with a thunderstroke.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 52)
But art thou not drowned, Stephano? hope now thou art not drowned.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 53)
Is the storm overblown? hid me under the dead mooncalf's gaberdine for fear of the storm.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 54)
And art thou living, Stephano? Stephano, two Neapolitans scaped!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 55)
Prithee, do not turn me about. My stomach is not constant.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 56)
These be fine things, an if they be not sprites.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 57)
That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor. will kneel to him.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 58)
How didst thou scape? How cam'st thou hither? Swear by this bottle how thou cam'st hither--I escaped upon a butt of sack, which the sailors heaved o'erboard--by this bottle, which made of the bark of a tree with mine own hands, since was cast ashore.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 59)
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject, for the liquor is not earthly.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 60)
Here. Swear then how thou escapedst.  Swum ashore, man, like a duck.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 61)
can swim like a duck, I'll be sworn.  Here, kiss the book.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 62)
Though thou canst swim like a duck, thou art made like a goose.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 63)
Stephano, hast any more of this?  The whole butt, man.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 64)
My cellar is in a rock by th' seaside, where my wine is hid.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 65)
--How now, mooncalf, how does thine ague?  Hast thou not dropped from heaven?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 66)
Out o' th' moon, do assure thee. was the man i' th' moon when time was.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 67)
have seen thee in her, and do adore thee. My mistress showed me thee, and thy dog, and thy bush.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 68)
Come, swear to that. Kiss the book. will furnish it anon with new contents.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 69)
Swear.   By this good light, this is a very shallow monster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 70)
afeard of him? very weak monster. The man i' th' moon?(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 71)
most poor, credulous monster! --Well drawn, monster, in good sooth!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 72)
I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island, and will kiss thy foot.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 73)
prithee, be my god.  By this light, a most perfidious and drunken monster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 74)
When 's god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.  I'll kiss thy foot.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 75)
I'll swear myself thy subject.  Come on, then. Down, and swear.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 76)
shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed monster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 77)
most scurvy monster. could find in my heart to beat him--  Come, kiss.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 78)
--but that the poor monster's in drink. An abominable monster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 79)
I'll show thee the best springs. I'll pluck thee berries.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 80)
I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough. plague upon the tyrant that serve.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 81)
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee, Thou wondrous man.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 82)
most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a poor drunkard.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 83)
prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow, And with my long nails will dig thee pignuts, Show thee a jay's nest, and instruct thee how To snare the nimble marmoset.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 84)
I'll bring thee To clustering filberts, and sometimes I'll get thee Young scamels from the rock.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 85)
Wilt thou go with me?  prithee now, lead the way without any more talking.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 86)
--Trinculo, the King and all our company else being drowned, we will inherit here.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 87)
--Here, bear my bottle.--Fellow Trinculo, we'll fill him by and by again.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 88)
Farewell, master, farewell, farewell.  howling monster, a drunken monster.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 89)
No more dams I'll make for fish, Nor fetch in firing At requiring, Nor scrape trenchering, nor wash dish.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 90)
'Ban, 'ban, Ca-caliban Has a new master. Get a new man.(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 91)
Freedom, high-day! High-day, freedom! Freedom, high-day, freedom!(The Tempest, Act 1, Scene 92)
There be some sports are painful, and their labor Delight in them sets off; some kinds of baseness Are nobly undergone; and most poor matters Point to rich ends.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 0)
This my mean task Would be as heavy to me as odious, but The mistress which serve quickens what's dead And makes my labors pleasures.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 1)
she is Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed, And he's composed of harshness.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 2)
must remove Some thousands of these logs and pile them up, Upon a sore injunction.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 3)
My sweet mistress Weeps when she sees me work, and says such baseness Had never like executor.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 4)
forget; But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labors, Most busiest when do it.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 5)
Alas now, pray you, Work not so hard. would the lightning had Burnt up those logs that you are enjoined to pile.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 6)
Pray, set it down and rest you. When this burns 'Twill weep for having wearied you.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 7)
My father Is hard at study. Pray now, rest yourself.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 8)
He's safe for these three hours.  most dear mistress, The sun will set before shall discharge What must strive to do.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 9)
If you'll sit down, I'll bear your logs the while.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 10)
Pray, give me that. I'll carry it to the pile.  No, precious creature, had rather crack my sinews, break my back, Than you should such dishonor undergo While sit lazy by.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 11)
It would become me As well as it does you, and should do it With much more ease, for my good will is to it, And yours it is against.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 12)
Poor worm, thou art infected. This visitation shows it.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 13)
You look wearily.  No, noble mistress, 'tis fresh morning with me When you are by at night.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 14)
do beseech you, Chiefly that might set it in my prayers, What is your name?(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 15)
Miranda.--O my father, have broke your hest to say so!(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 16)
Admired Miranda! Indeed the top of admiration, worth What's dearest to the world!(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 17)
Full many a lady have eyed with best regard, and many a time Th' harmony of their tongues hath into bondage Brought my too diligent ear.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 18)
For several virtues Have liked several women, never any With so full soul but some defect in her Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed, And put it to the foil.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 19)
But you, you, So perfect and so peerless, are created Of every creature's best.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 20)
do not know One of my sex, no woman's face remember, Save, from my glass, mine own.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 21)
Nor have seen More that may call men than you, good friend, And my dear father.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 22)
How features are abroad am skilless of, but by my modesty, The jewel in my dower, would not wish Any companion in the world but you, Nor can imagination form a shape Besides yourself to like of.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 23)
But prattle Something too wildly, and my father's precepts therein do forget.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 24)
am in my condition prince, Miranda; do think a king-- would, not so!(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 25)
--and would no more endure This wooden slavery than to suffer The flesh-fly blow my mouth.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 26)
Hear my soul speak: The very instant that saw you did My heart fly to your service, there resides To make me slave to it, and for your sake Am this patient log-man.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 27)
Do you love me?   heaven, Earth, bear witness to this sound, And crown what profess with kind event If speak true; if hollowly, invert What best is boded me to mischief.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 28)
Beyond all limit of what else i' th' world, Do love, prize, honor you.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 29)
am a fool To weep at what am glad of.  Fair encounter Of two most rare affections.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 30)
Heavens rain grace On that which breeds between 'em!(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 31)
Wherefore weep you?   At mine unworthiness, that dare not offer What desire to give, and much less take What shall die to want.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 32)
But this is trifling, And all the more it seeks to hide itself, The bigger bulk it shows.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 33)
Hence, bashful cunning, And prompt me, plain and holy innocence.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 34)
am your wife if you will marry me. If not, I'll die your maid.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 35)
To be your fellow You may deny me, but I'll be your servant Whether you will or no.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 36)
My mistress, dearest, and thus humble ever.   My husband, then?(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 37)
Ay, with a heart as willing As bondage e'er of freedom.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 38)
Here's my hand.   And mine, with my heart in 't. And now farewell Till half an hour hence.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 39)
thousand thousand.    So glad of this as they cannot be, Who are surprised withal; but my rejoicing At nothing can be more.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 40)
I'll to my book, For yet ere suppertime must perform Much business appertaining.(The Tempest, Act 9, Scene 41)
3       Tell not me. When the butt is out, we will drink water; not a drop before.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 0)
Therefore bear up and board 'em.--Servant monster, drink to me.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 1)
Servant monster? The folly of this island! They say there's but five upon this isle; we are three of them.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 2)
If th' other two be brained like us, the state totters.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 3)
Drink, servant monster, when bid thee. Thy eyes are almost set in thy head.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 4)
Where should they be set else? He were a brave monster indeed if they were set in his tail.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 5)
My man-monster hath drowned his tongue in sack. For my part, the sea cannot drown me.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 6)
swam, ere could recover the shore, five-and-thirty leagues off and on, by this light.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 7)
--Thou shalt be my lieutenant, monster, or my standard.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 8)
Your lieutenant, if you list. He's no standard.  We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 9)
Nor go neither. But you'll lie like dogs, and yet say nothing neither.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 10)
Mooncalf, speak once in thy life, if thou be'st a good mooncalf.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 11)
How does thy Honor? Let me lick thy shoe. I'll not serve him; he is not valiant.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 12)
Thou liest, most ignorant monster. am in case to justle a constable.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 13)
Why, thou debauched fish, thou! Was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much sack as today?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 14)
Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie, being but half a fish and half a monster?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 15)
Lo, how he mocks me! Wilt thou let him, my lord?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 16)
"Lord," quoth he? That a monster should be such a natural!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 17)
Lo, lo again! Bite him to death, prithee.  Trinculo, keep a good tongue in your head.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 18)
If you prove a mutineer, the next tree. The poor monster's my subject, and he shall not suffer indignity.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 19)
thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to harken once again to the suit made to thee?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 20)
Marry, will Kneel and repeat it. will stand, and so shall Trinculo.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 21)
As told thee before, am subject to a tyrant, a sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 22)
Thou liest.  Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 23)
would my valiant master would destroy thee. do not lie.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 24)
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in 's tale, by this hand, will supplant some of your teeth.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 25)
Why, said nothing.  Mum then, and no more. Proceed.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 26)
say by sorcery he got this isle; From me he got it.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 27)
If thy Greatness will, Revenge it on him, for know thou dar'st, But this thing dare not.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 28)
That's most certain.   Thou shalt be lord of it, and I'll serve thee.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 29)
How now shall this be compassed? Canst thou bring me to the party?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 30)
Yea, yea, my lord. I'll yield him thee asleep, Where thou mayst knock a nail into his head.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 31)
Thou liest. Thou canst not.   What a pied ninny's this!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 32)
--Thou scurvy patch!-- do beseech thy Greatness, give him blows And take his bottle from him.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 33)
When that's gone, He shall drink naught but brine, for I'll not show him Where the quick freshes are.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 34)
Trinculo, run into no further danger. Interrupt the monster one word further, and by this hand, I'll turn my mercy out o' doors and make a stockfish of thee.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 35)
Why, what did did nothing. I'll go farther off.  Didst thou not say he lied?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 36)
Thou liest.  Do so? Take thou that. As you like this, give me the lie another time.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 37)
did not give the lie! Out o' your wits and hearing too?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 38)
pox o' your bottle! This can sack and drinking do.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 39)
murrain on your monster, and the devil take your fingers!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 40)
Ha, ha, ha!  Now forward with your tale. Prithee, stand further off.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 41)
Beat him enough. After a little time I'll beat him too.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 42)
Stand farther. Come, proceed.   Why, as told thee, 'tis a custom with him th' afternoon to sleep.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 43)
There thou mayst brain him, Having first seized his books, or with a log Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake, Or cut his weasand with thy knife.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 44)
Remember First to possess his books, for without them He's but a sot, as am, nor hath not One spirit to command.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 45)
They all do hate him As rootedly as Burn but his books.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 46)
He has brave utensils--for so he calls them-- Which, when he has a house, he'll deck withal.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 47)
And that most deeply to consider is The beauty of his daughter.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 48)
He himself Calls her a nonpareil. never saw a woman But only Sycorax my dam and she; But she as far surpasseth Sycorax As great'st does least.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 49)
Is it so brave a lass?   Ay, lord, she will become thy bed, warrant, And bring thee forth brave brood.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 50)
Monster, will kill this man. His daughter and will be king and queen--save our Graces!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 51)
-- and Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys.--Dost thou like the plot, Trinculo?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 52)
Excellent.  Give me thy hand. am sorry beat thee.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 53)
But while thou liv'st, keep a good tongue in thy head.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 54)
Within this half hour will he be asleep. Wilt thou destroy him then?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 55)
Ay, on mine honor.  This will tell my master.   Thou mak'st me merry.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 56)
am full of pleasure. Let us be jocund. Will you troll the catch You taught me but whilere?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 57)
At thy request, monster, will do reason, any reason.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 58)
--Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.  Flout 'em and cout 'em And scout 'em and flout 'em!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 59)
Thought is free.  That's not the tune.   What is this same?(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 60)
This is the tune of our catch played by the picture of Nobody.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 61)
If thou be'st a man, show thyself in thy likeness.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 62)
If thou be'st a devil, take 't as thou list.  forgive me my sins!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 63)
He that dies pays all debts.--I defy thee!-- Mercy upon us!(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 64)
Art thou afeard?  No, monster, not   Be not afeard.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 65)
The isle is full of noises, Sounds and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 66)
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears, and sometimes voices That, if then had waked after long sleep, Will make me sleep again; and then, in dreaming, The clouds methought would open, and show riches Ready to drop upon me, that when waked cried to dream again.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 67)
This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where shall have my music for nothing.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 68)
When Prospero is destroyed.  That shall be by and by.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 69)
remember the story.  The sound is going away. Let's follow it, and after do our work.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 70)
Lead, monster. We'll follow.--I would could see this taborer.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 71)
He lays it on. Wilt come?  I'll follow, Stephano.(The Tempest, Act 10, Scene 72)
Will you stay no longer? Nor will you not that go with you?(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 0)
By your patience, no. My stars shine darkly over me.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 1)
The malignancy of my fate might perhaps distemper yours.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 2)
Therefore shall crave of you your leave that may bear my evils alone.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 3)
It were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 4)
Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.  No, sooth, sir.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 5)
My determinate voyage is mere extravagancy. But perceive in you so excellent a touch of modesty that you will not extort from me what am willing to keep in.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 6)
Therefore it charges me in manners the rather to express myself.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 7)
You must know of me, then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian, which called Roderigo.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 8)
My father was that Sebastian of Messaline whom know you have heard of.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 9)
He left behind him myself and a sister, both born in an hour.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 10)
If the heavens had been pleased, would we had so ended!(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 11)
But you, sir, altered that, for some hour before you took me from the breach of the sea was my sister drowned.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 12)
Alas the day!  lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled me, was yet of many accounted beautiful.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 13)
But though could not with such estimable wonder overfar believe that, yet thus far will boldly publish her: she bore a mind that envy could not but call fair.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 14)
She is drowned already, sir, with salt water, though seem to drown her remembrance again with more.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 15)
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.  good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 16)
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your servant.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 17)
If you will not undo what you have done-- that is, kill him whom you have recovered--desire it not.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 18)
Fare you well at once. My bosom is full of kindness, and am yet so near the manners of my mother that, upon the least occasion more, mine eyes will tell tales of me.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 19)
am bound to the Count Orsino's court. Farewell.   The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 20)
have many enemies in Orsino's court, Else would very shortly see thee there.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 21)
But come what may, do adore thee so That danger shall seem sport, and will go.(Twelfth Night, Act 0, Scene 22)
Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia?(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 0)
Even now, sir. On a moderate pace have since arrived but hither.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 1)
She returns this ring to you, sir. You might have saved me my pains to have taken it away yourself.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 2)
She adds, moreover, that you should put your lord into a desperate assurance she will none of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 3)
And one thing more, that you be never so hardy to come again in his affairs unless it be to report your lord's taking of this.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 4)
Receive it so.  She took the ring of me. I'll none of it.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 5)
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her, and her will is it should be so returned.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 6)
If it be worth stooping for, there it lies in your eye; if not, be it his that finds it.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 7)
left no ring with her. What means this lady?  Fortune forbid my outside have not charmed her!(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 8)
She made good view of me, indeed so much That methought her eyes had lost her tongue, For she did speak in starts distractedly.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 9)
She loves me, sure! The cunning of her passion Invites me in this churlish messenger.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 10)
None of my lord's ring? Why, he sent her none! am the man.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 11)
If it be so, as 'tis, Poor lady, she were better love a dream.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 12)
Disguise, see thou art a wickedness Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 13)
How easy is it for the proper false In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 14)
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we, For such as we are made of, such we be.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 15)
How will this fadge? My master loves her dearly, And poor monster, fond as much on him, And she, mistaken, seems to dote on me.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 16)
What will become of this? As am man, My state is desperate for my master's love.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 17)
As am woman (now, alas the day!), What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 18)
Time, thou must untangle this, not It is too hard a knot for me t' untie.(Twelfth Night, Act 1, Scene 19)
Approach, Sir Andrew. Not to be abed after midnight is to be up betimes, and "diluculo surgere," thou know'st--  Nay, by my troth, know not.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 0)
But know to be up late is to be up late.  false conclusion.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 1)
hate it as an unfilled can. To be up after midnight and to go to bed then, is early, so that to go to bed after midnight is to go to bed betimes.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 2)
Does not our lives consist of the four elements?  Faith, so they say, but think it rather consists of eating and drinking.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 3)
Thou 'rt a scholar. Let us therefore eat and drink.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 4)
Marian, say, a stoup of wine!     Here comes the Fool, i' faith.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 5)
How now, my hearts? Did you never see the picture of "We Three"?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 6)
Welcome, ass! Now let's have a catch.  By my troth, the Fool has an excellent breast.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 7)
had rather than forty shillings had such a leg, and so sweet a breath to sing, as the Fool has.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 8)
--In sooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling last night when thou spok'st of Pigrogromitus of the Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 9)
'Twas very good, i' faith. sent thee sixpence for thy leman.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 10)
Hadst it?  did impeticos thy gratillity, for Malvolio's nose is no whipstock, my lady has a white hand, and the Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 11)
Excellent! Why, this is the best fooling when all is done.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 12)
Now, a song!  Come on, there is sixpence for you.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 13)
Let's have a song.  There's a testril of me, too.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 14)
If one knight give a--  Would you have a love song or a song of good life?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 15)
love song, a love song.  Ay, ay, care not for good life.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 16)
mistress mine, where are you roaming? stay and hear!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 17)
Your truelove's coming, That can sing both high and low.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 18)
Trip no further, pretty sweeting. Journeys end in lovers meeting, Every wise man's son doth know.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 19)
Excellent good, i' faith!  Good, good.   What is love?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 20)
'Tis not hereafter. Present mirth hath present laughter.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 21)
What's to come is still unsure. In delay there lies no plenty, Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 22)
Youth's a stuff will not endure.  mellifluous voice, as am true knight.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 23)
contagious breath.  Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 24)
To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion. But shall we make the welkin dance indeed?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 25)
Shall we rouse the night owl in a catch that will draw three souls out of one weaver?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 26)
Shall we do that?  An you love me, let's do 't. am dog at a catch.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 27)
By 'r Lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.  Most certain.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 28)
Let our catch be "Thou Knave."  "Hold thy peace, thou knave," knight?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 29)
shall be constrained in 't to call thee "knave," knight.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 30)
'Tis not the first time have constrained one to call me "knave.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 31)
" Begin, Fool. It begins "Hold thy peace."  shall never begin if hold my peace.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 32)
Good, i' faith. Come, begin.     What a caterwauling do you keep here!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 33)
If my lady have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him turn you out of doors, never trust me.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 34)
My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's a Peg-a-Ramsey, and  Three merry men be we.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 35)
Am not consanguineous? Am not of her blood? Tillyvally!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 36)
"Lady"!  There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 37)
Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.  Ay, he does well enough if he be disposed, and so do too.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 38)
He does it with a better grace, but do it more natural.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 39)
the twelfth day of December--  For the love o' God, peace!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 40)
My masters, are you mad? Or what are you? Have you no wit, manners, nor honesty but to gabble like tinkers at this time of night?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 41)
Do you make an ale-house of my lady's house, that you squeak out your coziers' catches without any mitigation or remorse of voice?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 42)
Is there no respect of place, persons, nor time in you?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 43)
We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 44)
Sir Toby, must be round with you. My lady bade me tell you that, though she harbors you as her kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 45)
If you can separate yourself and your misdemeanors, you are welcome to the house; if not, an it would please you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid you farewell.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 46)
Farewell, dear heart, since must needs be gone.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 47)
Nay, good Sir Toby.   His eyes do show his days are almost done.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 48)
Is 't even so?   But will never die.   Sir Toby, there you lie.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 49)
This is much credit to you.   Shall bid him go?   What an if you do?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 50)
Shall bid him go, and spare not?   no, no, no, no, you dare not.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 51)
Out o' tune, sir? You lie. Art any more than a steward?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 52)
Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 53)
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' th' mouth, too.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 54)
Thou 'rt i' th' right.--Go, sir, rub your chain with crumbs.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 55)
--A stoup of wine, Maria!  Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favor at anything more than contempt, you would not give means for this uncivil rule.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 56)
She shall know of it, by this hand.  Go shake your ears!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 57)
'Twere as good a deed as to drink when a man's a-hungry, to challenge him the field and then to break promise with him and make a fool of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 58)
Do 't, knight. I'll write thee a challenge. Or I'll deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 59)
Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight. Since the youth of the Count's was today with my lady, she is much out of quiet.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 60)
For Monsieur Malvolio, let me alone with him. If do not gull him into a nayword and make him a common recreation, do not think have wit enough to lie straight in my bed.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 61)
know can do it.  Possess us, possess us, tell us something of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 62)
Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of puritan.  if thought that, I'd beat him like a dog!(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 63)
What, for being a puritan? Thy exquisite reason, dear knight?(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 64)
have no exquisite reason for 't, but have reason good enough.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 65)
The devil a puritan that he is, or anything constantly but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass that cons state without book and utters it by great swaths; the best persuaded of himself, so crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is his grounds of faith that all that look on him love him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 66)
And on that vice in him will my revenge find notable cause to work.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 67)
What wilt thou do?  will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love, wherein by the color of his beard, the shape of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find himself most feelingly personated.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 68)
can write very like my lady your niece; on a forgotten matter, we can hardly make distinction of our hands.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 69)
Excellent! smell a device.  have 't in my nose, too.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 70)
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop, that they come from my niece, and that she's in love with him.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 71)
My purpose is indeed a horse of that color.  And your horse now would make him an ass.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 72)
Ass, doubt not.  'twill be admirable!  Sport royal, warrant you.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 73)
know my physic will work with him. will plant you two, and let the Fool make a third, where he shall find the letter.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 74)
Observe his construction of it. For this night, to bed, and dream on the event.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 75)
Farewell.  Good night, Penthesilea.  Before me, she's a good wench.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 76)
She's a beagle true bred, and one that adores me.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 77)
What o' that?  was adored once, too.  Let's to bed, knight.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 78)
Thou hadst need send for more money.  If cannot recover your niece, am a foul way out.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 79)
Send for money, knight. If thou hast her not i' th' end, call me "Cut.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 80)
"  If do not, never trust me, take it how you will.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 81)
Come, come, I'll go burn some sack. 'Tis too late to go to bed now.(Twelfth Night, Act 2, Scene 82)
Give me some music.  Now, good morrow, friends.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 0)
-- Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song, That old and antique song we heard last night.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 1)
Methought it did relieve my passion much, More than light airs and recollected terms Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 2)
Come, but one verse.  He is not here, so please your Lordship, that should sing it.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 3)
Who was it?  Feste the jester, my lord, a Fool that the Lady Olivia's father took much delight in.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 4)
He is about the house.   Seek him out  and play the tune the while.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 5)
Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love, In the sweet pangs of it remember me, For such as am, all true lovers are, Unstaid and skittish in all motions else Save in the constant image of the creature That is beloved.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 6)
How dost thou like this tune?   It gives a very echo to the seat Where love is throned.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 7)
Thou dost speak masterly. My life upon 't, young though thou art, thine eye Hath stayed upon some favor that it loves.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 8)
Hath it not, boy?  little, by your favor.   What kind of woman is 't?(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 9)
Of your complexion.   She is not worth thee, then.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 10)
What years, i' faith?  About your years, my lord.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 11)
Too old, by heaven. Let still the woman take An elder than herself.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 12)
So wears she to him; So sways she level in her husband's heart.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 13)
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves, Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm, More longing, wavering, sooner lost and worn, Than women's are.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 14)
think it well, my lord.   Then let thy love be younger than thyself, Or thy affection cannot hold the bent.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 15)
For women are as roses, whose fair flower, Being once displayed, doth fall that very hour.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 16)
And so they are. Alas, that they are so, To die even when they to perfection grow!(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 17)
fellow, come, the song we had last night.-- Mark it, Cesario.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 18)
It is old and plain; The spinsters and the knitters in the sun And the free maids that weave their thread with bones Do use to chant it.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 19)
It is silly sooth, And dallies with the innocence of love Like the old age.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 20)
Are you ready, sir?  Ay, prithee, sing. The Song.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 21)
Come away, come away, death, And in sad cypress let me be laid.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 22)
Fly away, fly away, breath, am slain by a fair cruel maid.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 23)
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew, prepare it!(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 24)
My part of death, no one so true Did share it.  Not a flower, not a flower sweet On my black coffin let there be strown; Not a friend, not a friend greet My poor corpse where my bones shall be thrown.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 25)
thousand thousand sighs to save, Lay me, where Sad true lover never find my grave To weep there.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 26)
There's for thy pains.  No pains, sir. take pleasure in singing, sir.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 27)
I'll pay thy pleasure, then.  Truly sir, and pleasure will be paid, one time or another.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 28)
Give me now leave to leave thee.  Now the melancholy god protect thee and the tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta, for thy mind is a very opal.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 29)
would have men of such constancy put to sea, that their business might be everything and their intent everywhere, for that's it that always makes a good voyage of nothing.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 30)
Farewell.   Let all the rest give place.  Once more, Cesario, Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 31)
Tell her my love, more noble than the world, Prizes not quantity of dirty lands.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 32)
The parts that Fortune hath bestowed upon her, Tell her, hold as giddily as Fortune.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 33)
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 34)
But if she cannot love you, sir--   cannot be so answered.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 35)
Sooth, but you must. Say that some lady, as perhaps there is, Hath for your love as great a pang of heart As you have for Olivia.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 36)
You cannot love her; You tell her so. Must she not then be answered?(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 37)
There is no woman's sides Can bide the beating of so strong a passion As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart So big, to hold so much; they lack retention.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 38)
Alas, their love may be called appetite, No motion of the liver but the palate, That suffer surfeit, cloyment, and revolt; But mine is all as hungry as the sea, And can digest as much.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 39)
Make no compare Between that love a woman can bear me And that owe Olivia.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 40)
Ay, but know--  What dost thou know?   Too well what love women to men may owe.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 41)
In faith, they are as true of heart as we. My father had a daughter loved a man As it might be, perhaps, were a woman, should your Lordship.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 42)
And what's her history?   blank, my lord. She never told her love, But let concealment, like a worm i' th' bud, Feed on her damask cheek.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 43)
She pined in thought, And with a green and yellow melancholy She sat like Patience on a monument, Smiling at grief.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 44)
Was not this love indeed? We men may say more, swear more, but indeed Our shows are more than will; for still we prove Much in our vows but little in our love.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 45)
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?   am all the daughters of my father's house, And all the brothers, too--and yet know not.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 46)
Sir, shall to this lady?  Ay, that's the theme. To her in haste.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 47)
Give her this jewel. Say My love can give no place, bide no denay.(Twelfth Night, Act 3, Scene 48)
2       Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.  Nay, I'll come.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 0)
If lose a scruple of this sport, let me be boiled to death with melancholy.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 1)
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 2)
would exult, man. You know he brought me out o' favor with my lady about a bearbaiting here.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 3)
To anger him, we'll have the bear again, and we will fool him black and blue, shall we not, Sir Andrew?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 4)
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.     Here comes the little villain.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 5)
--How now, my metal of India?  Get you all three into the boxtree.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 6)
Malvolio's coming down this walk. He has been yonder i' the sun practicing behavior to his own shadow this half hour.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 7)
Observe him, for the love of mockery, for know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 8)
Close, in the name of jesting!  Lie thou there  for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 9)
'Tis but fortune, all is fortune. Maria once told me she did affect me, and have heard herself come thus near, that should she fancy, it should be one of my complexion.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 10)
Besides, she uses me with a more exalted respect than anyone else that follows her.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 11)
What should think on 't?  Here's an overweening rogue.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 12)
peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkeycock of him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 13)
How he jets under his advanced plumes!  'Slight, could so beat the rogue!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 14)
Peace, say.  To be Count Malvolio.  Ah, rogue!  Pistol him, pistol him!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 15)
Peace, peace!  There is example for 't. The lady of the Strachy married the yeoman of the wardrobe.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 16)
Fie on him, Jezebel!  peace, now he's deeply in.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 17)
Look how imagination blows him.  Having been three months married to her, sitting in my state--  for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 18)
Calling my officers about me, in my branched velvet gown, having come from a daybed where have left Olivia sleeping--  Fire and brimstone!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 19)
peace, peace!  And then to have the humor of state; and after a demure travel of regard, telling them know my place, as would they should do theirs, to ask for my kinsman Toby--  Bolts and shackles!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 20)
peace, peace, peace! Now, now.  Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make out for him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 21)
frown the while, and perchance wind up my watch, or play with my--some rich jewel.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 22)
Toby approaches; curtsies there to me--  Shall this fellow live?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 23)
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 24)
extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar smile with an austere regard of control--  And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 25)
Saying, "Cousin Toby, my fortunes, having cast me on your niece, give me this prerogative of speech--"  What, what?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 26)
"You must amend your drunkenness."  Out, scab!  Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 27)
"Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with a foolish knight--"  That's me, warrant you.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 28)
"One Sir Andrew."  knew 'twas for many do call me fool.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 29)
What employment have we here?  Now is the woodcock near the gin.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 30)
peace, and the spirit of humors intimate reading aloud to him.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 31)
By my life, this is my lady's hand! These be her very c's, her u's, and her t's, and thus she makes her great P's.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 32)
It is in contempt of question her hand.  Her c's, her u's, and her t's.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 33)
Why that?  To the unknown beloved, this, and my good wishes--Her very phrases!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 34)
By your leave, wax. Soft. And the impressure her Lucrece, with which she uses to seal--'tis my lady!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 35)
To whom should this be?  This wins him, liver and all.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 36)
Jove knows love, But who? Lips, do not move; No man must know.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 37)
"No man must know." What follows? The numbers altered.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 38)
"No man must know." If this should be thee, Malvolio!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 39)
Marry, hang thee, brock!   may command where adore, But silence, like a Lucrece knife, With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore; doth sway my life.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 40)
fustian riddle!  Excellent wench, say  doth sway my life.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 41)
" Nay, but first let me see, let me see, let me see.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 42)
What dish o' poison has she dressed him!  And with what wing the staniel checks at it!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 43)
may command where adore." Why, she may command me; serve her; she is my lady.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 44)
Why, this is evident to any formal capacity. There is no obstruction in this.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 45)
And the end--what should that alphabetical position portend?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 46)
If could make that resemble something in me! Softly!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 47)
ay, make up that.--He is now at a cold scent.  Sowter will cry upon 't for all this, though it be as rank as a fox.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 48)
"M"--Malvolio. "M"--why, that begins my name!  Did not say he would work it out?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 49)
The cur is excellent at faults.  But then there is no consonancy in the sequel that suffers under probation.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 50)
should follow, but does.  And shall end, hope.  Ay, or I'll cudgel him and make him cry   And then comes behind.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 51)
Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see more detraction at your heels than fortunes before you.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 52)
This simulation is not as the former, and yet to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for every one of these letters are in my name.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 53)
Soft, here follows prose. If this fall into thy hand, revolve.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 54)
In my stars am above thee, but be not afraid of greatness.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 55)
Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 56)
Thy fates open their hands. Let thy blood and spirit embrace them.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 57)
And, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be, cast thy humble slough and appear fresh.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 58)
Be opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants. Let thy tongue tang arguments of state.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 59)
Put thyself into the trick of singularity. She thus advises thee that sighs for thee.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 60)
Remember who commended thy yellow stockings and wished to see thee ever cross-gartered.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 61)
say, remember. Go to, thou art made, if thou desir'st to be so.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 62)
If not, let me see thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and not worthy to touch Fortune's fingers.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 63)
Farewell. She that would alter services with thee, The Fortunate-Unhappy.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 64)
Daylight and champian discovers not more! This is open.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 65)
will be proud, will read politic authors, will baffle Sir Toby, will wash off gross acquaintance, will be point-devise the very man.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 66)
do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade me; for every reason excites to this, that my lady loves me.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 67)
She did commend my yellow stockings of late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered, and in this she manifests herself to my love and, with a kind of injunction, drives me to these habits of her liking.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 68)
thank my stars, am happy. will be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and cross-gartered, even with the swiftness of putting on.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 69)
Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a postscript.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 70)
Thou canst not choose but know who am. If thou entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles become thee well.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 71)
Therefore in my presence still smile, dear my sweet, prithee.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 72)
Jove, thank thee! will smile. will do everything that thou wilt have me.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 73)
will not give my part of this sport for a pension of thousands to be paid from the Sophy.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 74)
could marry this wench for this device.  So could too.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 75)
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 76)
Nor neither.     Here comes my noble gull-catcher.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 77)
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?  Or o' mine either?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 78)
Shall play my freedom at tray-trip and become thy bondslave?(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 79)
faith, or either?  Why, thou hast put him in such a dream that when the image of it leaves him he must run mad.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 80)
Nay, but say true, does it work upon him?  Like aqua vitae with a midwife.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 81)
If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark his first approach before my lady.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 82)
He will come to her in yellow stockings, and 'tis a color she abhors, and cross-gartered, a fashion she detests; and he will smile upon her, which will now be so unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him into a notable contempt.(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 83)
If you will see it, follow me.  To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!(Twelfth Night, Act 4, Scene 84)
may depart with little while live; something may cast to you, not much.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 0)
Alas, the prison keep, though it be for great ones, yet they seldom come; before one salmon you shall take a number of minnows.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 1)
am given out to be better lined than it can appear to me report is a true speaker.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 2)
would were really that am delivered to be. Marry, what have, be it what it will, will assure upon my daughter at the day of my death.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 3)
Sir, demand no more than your own offer, and will estate your daughter in what have promised.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 4)
Well, we will talk more of this when the solemnity is past.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 5)
But have you a full promise of her? When that shall be seen, tender my consent.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 6)
have sir. Here she comes.  Your friend and have chanced to name you here, upon the old business.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 7)
But no more of that now; so soon as the court hurry is over, we will have an end of it.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 8)
th' meantime, look tenderly to the two prisoners.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 9)
can tell you they are princes.  These strewings are for their chamber.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 10)
'Tis pity they are in prison, and 'twere pity they should be out.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 11)
do think they have patience to make any adversity ashamed.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 12)
The prison itself is proud of 'em, and they have all the world in their chamber.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 13)
They are famed to be a pair of absolute men.  By my troth, think fame but stammers 'em.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 14)
They stand a grise above the reach of report.  heard them reported in the battle to be the only doers.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 15)
Nay, most likely, for they are noble suff'rers. marvel how they would have looked had they been victors, that with such a constant nobility enforce a freedom out of bondage, making misery their mirth and affliction a toy to jest at.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 16)
Do they so?  It seems to me they have no more sense of their captivity than of ruling Athens.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 17)
They eat well, look merrily, discourse of many things, but nothing of their own restraint and disasters.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 18)
Yet sometimes a divided sigh, martyred as 'twere i' th' deliverance, will break from one of them--when the other presently gives it so sweet a rebuke that could wish myself a sigh to be so chid, or at least a sigher to be comforted.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 19)
never saw 'em.  The Duke himself came privately in the night, and so did they.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 20)
What the reason of it is, know not. Look, yonder they are; that's Arcite looks out.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 21)
No, sir, no, that's Palamon. Arcite is the lower of the twain; you may perceive a part of him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 22)
Go to, leave your pointing; they would not make us their object.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 23)
Out of their sight.  It is a holiday to look on them.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 0, Scene 24)
How do you, noble cousin?  How do you, sir?   Why, strong enough to laugh at misery And bear the chance of war; yet we are prisoners fear forever, cousin.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 0)
believe it, And to that destiny have patiently Laid up my hour to come.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 1)
cousin Arcite, Where is Thebes now? Where is our noble country?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 2)
Where are our friends and kindreds? Never more Must we behold those comforts, never see The hardy youths strive for the games of honor, Hung with the painted favors of their ladies, Like tall ships under sail; then start amongst 'em And as an east wind leave 'em all behind us, Like lazy clouds, whilst Palamon and Arcite, Even in the wagging of a wanton leg, Outstripped the people's praises, won the garlands Ere they have time to wish 'em ours.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 3)
never Shall we two exercise, like twins of honor, Our arms again, and feel our fiery horses Like proud seas under us.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 4)
Our good swords now-- Better the red-eyed god of war ne'er wore-- Ravished our sides, like age must run to rust And deck the temples of those gods that hate us; These hands shall never draw 'em out like lightning To blast whole armies more.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 5)
No, Palamon, Those hopes are prisoners with us. Here we are And here the graces of our youths must wither Like a too-timely spring.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 6)
Here age must find us And--which is heaviest, Palamon--unmarried.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 7)
The sweet embraces of a loving wife, Loaden with kisses, armed with thousand Cupids, Shall never clasp our necks; no issue know us-- No figures of ourselves shall we e'er see, To glad our age, and like young eagles teach 'em Boldly to gaze against bright arms and say "Remember what your fathers were, and conquer!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 8)
" The fair-eyed maids shall weep our banishments And in their songs curse ever-blinded Fortune Till she for shame see what a wrong she has done To youth and nature.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 9)
This is all our world. We shall know nothing here but one another, Hear nothing but the clock that tells our woes.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 10)
The vine shall grow, but we shall never see it; Summer shall come, and with her all delights, But dead-cold winter must inhabit here still.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 11)
'Tis too true, Arcite. To our Theban hounds That shook the aged forest with their echoes No more now must we halloo; no more shake Our pointed javelins whilst the angry swine Flies like a Parthian quiver from our rages, Struck with our well-steeled darts.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 12)
All valiant uses, The food and nourishment of noble minds, In us two here shall perish; we shall die, Which is the curse of honor, lastly, Children of grief and ignorance.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 13)
Yet, cousin, Even from the bottom of these miseries, From all that fortune can inflict upon us, see two comforts rising, two mere blessings, If the gods please: to hold here a brave patience, And the enjoying of our griefs together.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 14)
Whilst Palamon is with me, let me perish If think this our prison!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 15)
Certainly 'Tis a main goodness, cousin, that our fortunes Were twined together.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 16)
'Tis most true, two souls Put in two noble bodies, let 'em suffer The gall of hazard, so they grow together, Will never sink; they must not, say they could.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 17)
willing man dies sleeping and all's done.   Shall we make worthy uses of this place That all men hate so much?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 18)
How, gentle cousin?   Let's think this prison holy sanctuary To keep us from corruption of worse men.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 19)
We are young and yet desire the ways of honor That liberty and common conversation, The poison of pure spirits, might like women Woo us to wander from.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 20)
What worthy blessing Can be but our imaginations May make it ours?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 21)
And here being thus together, We are an endless mine to one another; We are one another's wife, ever begetting New births of love; we are father, friends, acquaintance; We are, in one another, families; am your heir, and you are mine.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 22)
This place Is our inheritance; no hard oppressor Dare take this from us; here with a little patience We shall live long and loving.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 23)
No surfeits seek us; The hand of war hurts none here, nor the seas Swallow their youth.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 24)
Were we at liberty, wife might part us lawfully, or business; Quarrels consume us; envy of ill men Crave our acquaintance.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 25)
might sicken, cousin, Where you should never know it, and so perish Without your noble hand to close mine eyes, Or prayers to the gods.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 26)
thousand chances, Were we from hence, would sever us.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 27)
You have made me-- thank you, cousin Arcite--almost wanton With my captivity.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 28)
What a misery It is to live abroad and everywhere!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 29)
'Tis like a beast, methinks. find the court here, am sure, a more content; and all those pleasures That woo the wills of men to vanity see through now, and am sufficient To tell the world 'tis but a gaudy shadow That old Time as he passes by takes with him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 30)
What had we been, old in the court of Creon, Where sin is justice, lust and ignorance The virtues of the great ones?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 31)
Cousin Arcite, Had not the loving gods found this place for us, We had died as they do, ill old men, unwept, And had their epitaphs, the people's curses.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 32)
Shall say more?  would hear you still.  You shall.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 33)
Is there record of any two that loved Better than we do, Arcite?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 34)
Sure there cannot.   do not think it possible our friendship Should ever leave us.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 35)
Till our deaths it cannot.    And after death our spirits shall be led To those that love eternally.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 36)
Speak on, sir.   This garden has a world of pleasures in 't.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 37)
What flower is this?  'Tis called narcissus, madam.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 38)
That was a fair boy certain, but a fool To love himself.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 39)
Were there not maids enough?   Pray, forward.  Yes.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 40)
Or were they all hard-hearted?   They could not be to one so fair.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 41)
Thou wouldst not.   think should not, madam.  That's a good wench.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 42)
But take heed to your kindness, though.  Why, madam?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 43)
Men are mad things.  Will you go forward, cousin?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 44)
Canst not thou work such flowers in silk, wench?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 45)
Yes.   I'll have a gown full of 'em, and of these.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 46)
This is pretty color. Will 't not do Rarely upon a skirt, wench?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 47)
Dainty, madam.   Cousin, cousin! How do you, sir?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 48)
Why, Palamon!   Never till now was in prison, Arcite.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 49)
Why, what's the matter, man?  Behold, and wonder!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 50)
By heaven, she is a goddess.  Ha!  Do reverence. She is a goddess, Arcite.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 51)
Of all flowers Methinks a rose is best.  Why, gentle madam?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 52)
It is the very emblem of a maid. For when the west wind courts her gently, How modestly she blows and paints the sun With her chaste blushes!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 53)
When the north comes near her, Rude and impatient, then, like chastity, She locks her beauties in her bud again, And leaves him to base briers.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 54)
Yet, good madam, Sometimes her modesty will blow so far She falls for 't.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 55)
maid, If she have any honor, would be loath To take example by her.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 56)
Thou art wanton!   She is wondrous fair.  She is all the beauty extant.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 57)
The sun grows high. Let's walk in. Keep these flowers.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 58)
We'll see how near art can come near their colors.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 59)
am wondrous merry-hearted. could laugh now.   could lie down, am sure.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 60)
And take one with you?   That's as we bargain, madam.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 61)
Well, agree then.    What think you of this beauty?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 62)
'Tis a rare one.   Is 't but a rare one?  Yes, a matchless beauty.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 63)
Might not a man well lose himself and love her?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 64)
cannot tell what you have done; have, Beshrew mine eyes for 't!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 65)
Now feel my shackles.   You love her, then?  Who would not?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 66)
And desire her?   Before my liberty.  saw her first.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 67)
That's nothing.  But it shall be.  saw her, too.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 68)
Yes, but you must not love her.   will not, as you do, to worship her As she is heavenly and a blessed goddess.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 69)
love her as a woman, to enjoy her. So both may love.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 70)
You shall not love at all.  Not love at all! Who shall deny me?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 71)
that first saw her; that took possession First with mine eye of all those beauties In her revealed to mankind.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 72)
If thou lov'st her, Or entertain'st a hope to blast my wishes, Thou art a traitor, Arcite, and a fellow False as thy title to her.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 73)
Friendship, blood, And all the ties between us disclaim If thou once think upon her.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 74)
Yes, love her, And, if the lives of all my name lay on it, must do so.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 75)
love her with my soul. If that will lose you, farewell, Palamon.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 76)
say again, love, and in loving her maintain am as worthy and as free a lover And have as just a title to her beauty As any Palamon or any living That is a man's son.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 77)
Have called thee friend?   Yes, and have found me so.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 78)
Why are you moved thus? Let me deal coldly with you: am not Part of your blood, part of your soul?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 79)
You have told me That was Palamon and you were Arcite.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 80)
Yes.  Am not liable to those affections, Those joys, griefs, angers, fears, my friend shall suffer?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 81)
You may be.  Why then would you deal so cunningly, So strangely, so unlike a noble kinsman, To love alone?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 82)
Speak truly, do you think me Unworthy of her sight?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 83)
No, but unjust If thou pursue that sight.  Because another First sees the enemy, shall stand still And let mine honor down, and never charge?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 84)
Yes, if he be but one.  But say that one Had rather combat me?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 85)
Let that one say so, And use thy freedom. Else, if thou pursuest her, Be as that cursed man that hates his country, branded villain.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 86)
You are mad.  must be. Till thou art worthy, Arcite, it concerns me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 87)
And in this madness if hazard thee And take thy life, deal but truly.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 88)
Fie, sir! You play the child extremely. will love her; must, ought to do so, and dare, And all this justly.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 89)
that now, that now, Thy false self and thy friend had but this fortune To be one hour at liberty, and grasp Our good swords in our hands, would quickly teach thee What 'twere to filch affection from another.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 90)
Thou art baser in it than a cutpurse. Put but thy head out of this window more And, as have a soul, I'll nail thy life to 't.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 91)
Thou dar'st not, fool; thou canst not; thou art feeble.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 92)
Put my head out? I'll throw my body out And leap the garden when see her next, And pitch between her arms to anger thee.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 93)
No more; the keeper's coming. shall live To knock thy brains out with my shackles.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 94)
Do!   By your leave, gentlemen.  Now, honest keeper?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 95)
Lord Arcite, you must presently to th' Duke; The cause know not yet.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 96)
am ready, keeper.   Prince Palamon, must awhile bereave you Of your fair cousin's company.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 97)
And me too, Even when you please, of life.--Why is he sent for?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 98)
It may be he shall marry her; he's goodly, And like enough the Duke hath taken notice Both of his blood and body.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 99)
But his falsehood! Why should a friend be treacherous?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 100)
If that Get him a wife so noble and so fair, Let honest men ne'er love again.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 101)
Once more would but see this fair one. Blessed garden And fruit and flowers more blessed that still blossom As her bright eyes shine on you, would were, For all the fortune of my life hereafter, Yon little tree, yon blooming apricock!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 102)
How would spread and fling my wanton arms In at her window; would bring her fruit Fit for the gods to feed on; youth and pleasure Still as she tasted should be doubled on her; And, if she be not heavenly, would make her So near the gods in nature, they should fear her.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 103)
And then am sure she would love me.--How now, keeper, Where's Arcite?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 104)
Banished. Prince Pirithous Obtained his liberty, but never more Upon his oath and life must he set foot Upon this kingdom.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 105)
He's a blessed man. He shall see Thebes again, and call to arms The bold young men that, when he bids 'em charge, Fall on like fire.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 106)
Arcite shall have a fortune, If he dare make himself a worthy lover, Yet in the field to strike a battle for her, And, if he lose her then, he's a cold coward.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 107)
How bravely may he bear himself to win her If he be noble Arcite--thousand ways!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 108)
Were at liberty, would do things Of such a virtuous greatness that this lady, This blushing virgin, should take manhood to her And seek to ravish me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 109)
My lord, for you have this charge to--  To discharge my life?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 110)
No, but from this place to remove your Lordship; The windows are too open.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 111)
Devils take 'em That are so envious to me! Prithee, kill me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 112)
And hang for 't afterward!  By this good light, Had a sword would kill thee.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 113)
Why, my lord?   Thou bringst such pelting, scurvy news continually, Thou art not worthy life.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 114)
will not go.   Indeed you must, my lord.  May see the garden?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 115)
No.  Then am resolved, will not go.   must constrain you then; and, for you are dangerous, I'll clap more irons on you.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 116)
Do, good keeper. I'll shake 'em so, you shall not sleep; I'll make you a new morris.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 117)
Must go?   There is no remedy.  Farewell, kind window.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 118)
May rude wind never hurt thee. my lady, If ever thou hast felt what sorrow was, Dream how suffer.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 1, Scene 119)
Banished the kingdom? 'Tis a benefit, mercy must thank 'em for; but banished The free enjoying of that face die for, 'twas a studied punishment, a death Beyond imagination--such a vengeance That, were old and wicked, all my sins Could never pluck upon me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 0)
Palamon, Thou hast the start now; thou shalt stay and see Her bright eyes break each morning 'gainst thy window And let in life into thee; thou shalt feed Upon the sweetness of a noble beauty That nature ne'er exceeded nor ne'er shall.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 1)
Good gods, what happiness has Palamon! Twenty to one he'll come to speak to her, And if she be as gentle as she's fair, know she's his.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 2)
He has a tongue will tame Tempests and make the wild rocks wanton.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 3)
Come what can come, The worst is death. will not leave the kingdom.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 4)
know mine own is but a heap of ruins, And no redress there.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 5)
If go, he has her. am resolved another shape shall make me Or end my fortunes.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 6)
Either way am happy. I'll see her and be near her, or no more.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 7)
My masters, I'll be there, that's certain.  And I'll be there.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 8)
And  Why, then, have with you, boys. 'Tis but a chiding.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 9)
Let the plough play today; I'll tickle 't out of the jades' tails tomorrow.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 10)
am sure to have my wife as jealous as a turkey, but that's all one.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 11)
I'll go through; let her mumble.  Clap her aboard tomorrow night and stow her, and all's made up again.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 12)
Ay, do but put a fescue in her fist and you shall see her take a new lesson out and be a good wench.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 13)
Do we all hold against the Maying?  Hold? What should ail us?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 14)
Arcas will be there.  And Sennois and Rycas; and three better lads ne'er danced under green tree.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 15)
And you know what wenches, ha! But will the dainty domine, the Schoolmaster, keep touch, do you think?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 16)
For he does all, you know.  He'll eat a hornbook ere he fail.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 17)
Go to, the matter's too far driven between him and the tanner's daughter to let slip now; and she must see the Duke, and she must dance too.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 18)
Shall we be lusty?  All the boys in Athens blow wind i' th' breech on 's.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 19)
And here I'll be and there I'll be, for our town, and here again, and there again.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 20)
Ha, boys, hey for the weavers!  This must be done i' th' woods.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 21)
pardon me.  By any means; our thing of learning says so--where he himself will edify the Duke most parlously in our behalfs.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 22)
He's excellent i' th' woods; bring him to th' plains, his learning makes no cry.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 23)
We'll see the sports, then every man to 's tackle.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 24)
And, sweet companions, let's rehearse, by any means, before the ladies see us, and do sweetly, and God knows what may come on 't.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 25)
Content. The sports once ended, we'll perform. Away, boys, and hold.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 26)
By your leaves, honest friends: pray you, whither go you?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 27)
Whither? Why, what a question's that?  Yes, 'tis a question To me that know not.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 28)
To the games, my friend.   Where were you bred, you know it not?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 29)
Not far, sir. Are there such games today?  Yes, marry, are there, And such as you never saw.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 30)
The Duke himself Will be in person there.  What pastimes are they?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 31)
Wrestling and running.--'Tis a pretty fellow.   Thou wilt not go along?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 32)
Not yet, sir.  Well, sir, Take your own time.--Come, boys.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 33)
My mind misgives me. This fellow has a vengeance trick o' th' hip.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 34)
Mark how his body's made for 't.  I'll be hanged, though, if he dare venture.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 35)
Hang him, plum porridge! He wrestle? He roast eggs!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 36)
Come, let's be gone, lads.   This is an offered opportunity durst not wish for.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 37)
Well could have wrestled-- The best men called it excellent--and run Swifter than wind upon a field of corn, Curling the wealthy ears, never flew.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 38)
I'll venture, And in some poor disguise be there.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 39)
Who knows Whether my brows may not be girt with garlands, And happiness prefer me to a place Where may ever dwell in sight of her?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 2, Scene 40)
Why should love this gentleman? 'Tis odds He never will affect me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 0)
am base, My father the mean keeper of his prison, And he a prince.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 1)
To marry him is hopeless; To be his whore is witless.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 2)
Out upon 't! What pushes are we wenches driven to When fifteen once has found us!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 3)
First, saw him; seeing, thought he was a goodly man; He has as much to please a woman in him, If he please to bestow it so, as ever These eyes yet looked on.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 4)
Next, pitied him, And so would any young wench, o' my conscience, That ever dreamed, or vowed her maidenhead To a young handsome man.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 5)
Then loved him, Extremely loved him, infinitely loved him!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 6)
And yet he had a cousin, fair as he too. But in my heart was Palamon, and there, Lord, what a coil he keeps!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 7)
To hear him Sing in an evening, what a heaven it is!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 8)
And yet his songs are sad ones. Fairer spoken Was never gentleman.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 9)
When come in To bring him water in a morning, first He bows his noble body, then salutes me thus: "Fair, gentle maid, good morrow.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 10)
May thy goodness Get thee a happy husband." Once he kissed me; loved my lips the better ten days after.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 11)
Would he would do so ev'ry day! He grieves much-- And me as much to see his misery.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 12)
What should do to make him know love him? For would fain enjoy him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 13)
Say ventured To set him free? What says the law then?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 14)
Thus much for law or kindred! will do it, And this night, or tomorrow, he shall love me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 3, Scene 15)
2     Enter Theseus, Hippolyta, Pirithous, Emilia, Arcite     You have done worthily.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 0)
have not seen, Since Hercules, a man of tougher sinews.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 1)
Whate'er you are, you run the best and wrestle That these times can allow.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 2)
am proud to please you.   What country bred you?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 3)
This; but far off, prince.   Are you a gentleman?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 4)
My father said so, And to those gentle uses gave me life.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 5)
Are you his heir?  His youngest, sir.  Your father, Sure, is a happy sire, then.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 6)
What proves you?   little of all noble qualities.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 7)
could have kept a hawk and well have hallowed To a deep cry of dogs.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 8)
dare not praise My feat in horsemanship, yet they that knew me Would say it was my best piece.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 9)
Last, and greatest, would be thought a soldier.  You are perfect.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 10)
Upon my soul, a proper man.  He is so.   How do you like him, lady?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 11)
admire him. have not seen so young a man so noble, If he say true, of his sort.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 12)
Believe, His mother was a wondrous handsome woman; His face, methinks, goes that way.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 13)
But his body And fiery mind illustrate a brave father.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 14)
Mark how his virtue, like a hidden sun, Breaks through his baser garments.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 15)
He's well got, sure.   What made you seek this place, sir?(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 16)
Noble Theseus, To purchase name and do my ablest service To such a well-found wonder as thy worth; For only in thy court, of all the world, Dwells fair-eyed Honor.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 17)
All his words are worthy.   Sir, we are much indebted to your travel, Nor shall you lose your wish.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 18)
--Pirithous, Dispose of this fair gentleman.  Thanks, Theseus.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 19)
-- Whate'er you are, you're mine, and shall give you To a most noble service: to this lady, This bright young virgin.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 20)
Pray observe her goodness; You have honored her fair birthday with your virtues, And, as your due, you're hers.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 21)
Kiss her fair hand, sir.   Sir, you're a noble giver.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 22)
--Dearest beauty, Thus let me seal my vowed faith.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 23)
When your servant, Your most unworthy creature, but offends you, Command him die, he shall.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 24)
That were too cruel. If you deserve well, sir, shall soon see 't.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 25)
You're mine, and somewhat better than your rank I'll use you.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 26)
I'll see you furnished, and because you say You are a horseman, must needs entreat you This afternoon to ride--but 'tis a rough one.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 27)
like him better, prince; shall not then Freeze in my saddle.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 28)
Sweet, you must be ready,-- And you, Emilia,--and you, friend,--and all, Tomorrow by the sun, to do observance To flowery May in Dian's wood.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 29)
--Wait well, sir, Upon your mistress.--Emily, hope He shall not go afoot.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 30)
That were a shame, sir, While have horses.--Take your choice, and what You want at any time, let me but know it.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 31)
If you serve faithfully, dare assure you You'll find a loving mistress.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 32)
If do not, Let me find that my father ever hated, Disgrace and blows.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 33)
Go lead the way; you have won it. It shall be so; you shall receive all dues Fit for the honor you have won.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 34)
'Twere wrong else.-- Sister, beshrew my heart, you have a servant That, if were a woman, would be master; But you are wise.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 4, Scene 35)
Let all the dukes and all the devils roar! He is at liberty.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 0)
have ventured for him, And out have brought him; to a little wood mile hence have sent him, where a cedar Higher than all the rest spreads like a plane Fast by a brook, and there he shall keep close Till provide him files and food, for yet His iron bracelets are not off.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 1)
Love, What a stout-hearted child thou art! My father Durst better have endured cold iron than done it.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 2)
love him beyond love and beyond reason Or wit or safety.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 3)
have made him know it; care not, am desperate. If the law Find me and then condemn me for 't, some wenches, Some honest-hearted maids, will sing my dirge And tell to memory my death was noble, Dying almost a martyr.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 4)
That way he takes purpose is my way too. Sure he cannot Be so unmanly as to leave me here.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 5)
If he do, maids will not so easily Trust men again.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 6)
And yet he has not thanked me For what have done; no, not so much as kissed me, And that, methinks, is not so well; nor scarcely Could persuade him to become a free man, He made such scruples of the wrong he did To me and to my father.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 7)
Yet hope, When he considers more, this love of mine Will take more root within him.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 8)
Let him do What he will with me, so he use me kindly; For use me so he shall, or I'll proclaim him, And to his face, no man.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 9)
I'll presently Provide him necessaries and pack my clothes up, And where there is a path of ground I'll venture, So he be with me.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 10)
By him like a shadow I'll ever dwell. Within this hour the hubbub Will be all o'er the prison.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 11)
am then Kissing the man they look for. Farewell, father!(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 12)
Get many more such prisoners and such daughters, And shortly you may keep yourself.(The Two Noble Kinsmen, Act 5, Scene 13)
Thersites!  Agamemnon--how if he had boils, full, all over, generally?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 0)
Thersites!  And those boils did run? Say so. Did not the general run, then?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 1)
Were not that a botchy core?  Dog!  Then there would come some matter from him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 2)
see none now.  Thou bitchwolf's son, canst thou not hear?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 3)
Feel, then.  The plague of Greece upon thee, thou mongrel beef-witted lord!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 4)
Speak, then, thou unsalted leaven, speak. will beat thee into handsomeness.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 5)
shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness, but think thy horse will sooner con an oration than thou learn a prayer without book.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 6)
Thou canst strike, canst thou? red murrain o' thy jade's tricks.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 7)
Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.  Dost thou think have no sense, thou strikest me thus?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 8)
The proclamation!  Thou art proclaimed a fool, think.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 9)
Do not, porpentine, do not. My fingers itch.  would thou didst itch from head to foot, and had the scratching of thee; would make thee the loathsomest scab in Greece.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 10)
When thou art forth in the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 11)
say, the proclamation!  Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles, and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as Cerberus is at Proserpina's beauty, ay, that thou bark'st at him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 12)
Mistress Thersites!  Thou shouldst strike him--  Cobloaf!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 13)
He would pound thee into shivers with his fist as a sailor breaks a biscuit.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 14)
You whoreson cur!  Do, do.  Thou stool for a witch!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 15)
Ay, do, do, thou sodden-witted lord. Thou hast no more brain than have in mine elbows; an asinego may tutor thee, thou scurvy-valiant ass.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 16)
Thou art here but to thrash Trojans, and thou art bought and sold among those of any wit, like a barbarian slave.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 17)
If thou use to beat me, will begin at thy heel and tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no bowels, thou.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 18)
You dog!  You scurvy lord!  You cur!  Mars his idiot!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 19)
Do, rudeness, do, camel, do, do.     Why, how now, Ajax?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 20)
Wherefore do you thus?--How now, Thersites? What's the matter, man?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 21)
You see him there, do you?  Ay, what's the matter?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 22)
Nay, look upon him.  So do. What's the matter?  Nay, but regard him well.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 23)
Well, why, so do.  But yet you look not well upon him, for whosomever you take him to be, he is Ajax.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 24)
know that, fool.  Ay, but that fool knows not himself.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 25)
Therefore beat thee.  Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 26)
His evasions have ears thus long. have bobbed his brain more than he has beat my bones.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 27)
will buy nine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is not worth the ninth part of a sparrow.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 28)
This lord, Achilles--Ajax, who wears his wit in his belly, and his guts in his head--I'll tell you what say of him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 29)
What?  say, this Ajax--  Nay, good Ajax.  Has not so much wit--  Nay, must hold you.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 30)
As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he comes to fight.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 31)
Peace, fool!  would have peace and quietness, but the fool will not--he there, that he.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 32)
Look you there.  thou damned cur, shall--  Will you set your wit to a fool's?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 33)
No, warrant you. The fool's will shame it.  Good words, Thersites.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 34)
What's the quarrel?  bade the vile owl go learn me the tenor of the proclamation, and he rails upon me.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 35)
serve thee not.  Well, go to, go to.  serve here voluntary.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 36)
Your last service was suff'rance; 'twas not voluntary.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 37)
No man is beaten voluntary. Ajax was here the voluntary, and you as under an impress.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 38)
E'en so. great deal of your wit, too, lies in your sinews, or else there be liars.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 39)
Hector shall have a great catch an he knock out either of your brains; he were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 40)
What, with me too, Thersites?  There's Ulysses and old Nestor--whose wit was moldy ere your grandsires had nails on their toes--yoke you like draft-oxen and make you plow up the wars.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 41)
What? What?  Yes, good sooth. To, Achilles! To, Ajax!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 42)
To--  shall cut out your tongue.  'Tis no matter.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 43)
shall speak as much as thou afterwards.  No more words, Thersites.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 44)
Peace.  will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall  There's for you, Patroclus.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 45)
will see you hanged like clodpolls ere come any more to your tents.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 46)
will keep where there is wit stirring and leave the faction of fools.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 47)
good riddance.   Marry, this, sir, is proclaimed through all our host: That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun, Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy Tomorrow morning call some knight to arms That hath a stomach, and such a one that dare Maintain--I know not what; 'tis trash.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 48)
Farewell.  Farewell. Who shall answer him?   know not.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 49)
'Tis put to lott'ry. Otherwise, He knew his man.  meaning you?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 0, Scene 50)
After so many hours, lives, speeches spent, Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks: "Deliver Helen, and all damage else-- As honor, loss of time, travel, expense, Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consumed In hot digestion of this cormorant war-- Shall be struck off.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 0)
"--Hector, what say you to 't?   Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than As far as toucheth my particular, Yet, dread Priam, There is no lady of more softer bowels, More spongy to suck in the sense of fear, More ready to cry out "Who knows what follows?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 1)
" Than Hector is. The wound of peace is surety, Surety secure; but modest doubt is called The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches To th' bottom of the worst.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 2)
Let Helen go. Since the first sword was drawn about this question, Every tithe soul, 'mongst many thousand dismes, Hath been as dear as Helen; mean, of ours.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 3)
If we have lost so many tenths of ours To guard a thing not ours--nor worth to us, Had it our name, the value of one ten-- What merit's in that reason which denies The yielding of her up?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 4)
Fie, fie, my brother, Weigh you the worth and honor of a king So great as our dread father's in a scale Of common ounces?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 5)
Will you with counters sum The past-proportion of his infinite, And buckle in a waist most fathomless With spans and inches so diminutive As fears and reasons?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 6)
Fie, for godly shame!   No marvel though you bite so sharp at reasons, You are so empty of them.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 7)
Should not our father Bear the great sway of his affairs with reason, Because your speech hath none that tell him so?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 8)
You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 9)
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are your reasons: You know an enemy intends you harm; You know a sword employed is perilous, And reason flies the object of all harm.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 10)
Who marvels, then, when Helenus beholds Grecian and his sword, if he do set The very wings of reason to his heels And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove Or like a star disorbed?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 11)
Nay, if we talk of reason, Let's shut our gates and sleep.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 12)
Manhood and honor Should have hare hearts, would they but fat their thoughts With this crammed reason.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 13)
Reason and respect Make livers pale and lustihood deject.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 14)
Brother, she is not worth what she doth cost The keeping.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 15)
What's aught but as 'tis valued?   But value dwells not in particular will; It holds his estimate and dignity As well wherein 'tis precious of itself As in the prizer.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 16)
'Tis mad idolatry To make the service greater than the god; And the will dotes that is attributive To what infectiously itself affects Without some image of th' affected merit.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 17)
take today a wife, and my election Is led on in the conduct of my will-- My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears, Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores Of will and judgment.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 18)
How may avoid, Although my will distaste what it elected, The wife choose?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 19)
There can be no evasion To blench from this and to stand firm by honor.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 20)
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant When we have soiled them, nor the remainder viands We do not throw in unrespective sieve Because we now are full.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 21)
It was thought meet Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 22)
Your breath with full consent bellied his sails; The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce And did him service.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 23)
He touched the ports desired, And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive, He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness Wrinkles Apollo's and makes pale the morning.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 24)
Why keep we her? The Grecians keep our aunt. Is she worth keeping?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 25)
Why, she is a pearl Whose price hath launched above a thousand ships And turned crowned kings to merchants.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 26)
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went-- As you must needs, for you all cried "Go, go"-- If you'll confess he brought home worthy prize-- As you must needs, for you all clapped your hands And cried "Inestimable"--why do you now The issue of your proper wisdoms rate And do a deed that never Fortune did, Beggar the estimation which you prized Richer than sea and land?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 27)
theft most base, That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 28)
But thieves unworthy of a thing so stol'n, That in their country did them that disgrace We fear to warrant in our native place.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 29)
Cry, Trojans, cry!  What noise? What shriek is this?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 30)
'Tis our mad sister. do know her voice.  Cry, Trojans!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 31)
It is Cassandra.      Cry, Trojans, cry! Lend me ten thousand eyes, And will fill them with prophetic tears.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 32)
Peace, sister, peace!   Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled elders, Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry, Add to my clamors.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 33)
Let us pay betimes moiety of that mass of moan to come.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 34)
Cry, Trojans, cry! Practice your eyes with tears.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 35)
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilium stand. Our firebrand brother Paris burns us all.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 36)
Cry, Trojans, cry! Helen and a woe! Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 37)
Now, youthful Troilus, do not these high strains Of divination in our sister work Some touches of remorse?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 38)
Or is your blood So madly hot that no discourse of reason Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause Can qualify the same?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 39)
Why, brother Hector, We may not think the justness of each act Such and no other than event doth form it, Nor once deject the courage of our minds Because Cassandra's mad.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 40)
Her brainsick raptures Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel Which hath our several honors all engaged To make it gracious.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 41)
For my private part, am no more touched than all Priam's sons; And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us Such things as might offend the weakest spleen To fight for and maintain!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 42)
Else might the world convince of levity As well my undertakings as your counsels.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 43)
But attest the gods, your full consent Gave wings to my propension and cut off All fears attending on so dire a project.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 44)
For what, alas, can these my single arms? What propugnation is in one man's valor To stand the push and enmity of those This quarrel would excite?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 45)
Yet, protest, Were alone to pass the difficulties And had as ample power as have will, Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done Nor faint in the pursuit.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 46)
Paris, you speak Like one besotted on your sweet delights.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 47)
You have the honey still, but these the gall. So to be valiant is no praise at all.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 48)
Sir, propose not merely to myself The pleasures such a beauty brings with it, But would have the soil of her fair rape Wiped off in honorable keeping her.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 49)
What treason were it to the ransacked queen, Disgrace to your great worths, and shame to me, Now to deliver her possession up On terms of base compulsion?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 50)
Can it be That so degenerate a strain as this Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 51)
There's not the meanest spirit on our party Without a heart to dare or sword to draw When Helen is defended, nor none so noble Whose life were ill bestowed or death unfamed Where Helen is the subject.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 52)
Then say, Well may we fight for her whom, we know well, The world's large spaces cannot parallel.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 53)
Paris and Troilus, you have both said well, And on the cause and question now in hand Have glozed--but superficially, not much Unlike young men, whom Aristotle thought Unfit to hear moral philosophy.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 54)
The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion of distempered blood Than to make up a free determination 'Twixt right and wrong, for pleasure and revenge Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice Of any true decision.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 55)
Nature craves All dues be rendered to their owners.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 56)
Now, What nearer debt in all humanity Than wife is to the husband?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 57)
If this law Of nature be corrupted through affection, And that great minds, of partial indulgence To their benumbed wills, resist the same, There is a law in each well-ordered nation To curb those raging appetites that are Most disobedient and refractory.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 58)
If Helen, then, be wife to Sparta's king, As it is known she is, these moral laws Of nature and of nations speak aloud To have her back returned.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 59)
Thus to persist In doing wrong extenuates not wrong, But makes it much more heavy.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 60)
Hector's opinion Is this in way of truth; yet, ne'ertheless, My sprightly brethren, propend to you In resolution to keep Helen still, For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependence Upon our joint and several dignities.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 61)
Why, there you touched the life of our design! Were it not glory that we more affected Than the performance of our heaving spleens, would not wish a drop of Trojan blood Spent more in her defense.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 62)
But, worthy Hector, She is a theme of honor and renown, spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds, Whose present courage may beat down our foes, And fame in time to come canonize us; For presume brave Hector would not lose So rich advantage of a promised glory As smiles upon the forehead of this action For the wide world's revenue.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 63)
am yours, You valiant offspring of great Priamus.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 64)
have a roisting challenge sent amongst The dull and factious nobles of the Greeks Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 65)
was advertised their great general slept, Whilst emulation in the army crept.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 1, Scene 66)
2       How now, Thersites? What, lost in the labyrinth of thy fury?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 0)
Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He beats me, and rail at him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 1)
worthy satisfaction! Would it were otherwise, that could beat him whilst he railed at me.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 2)
'Sfoot, I'll learn to conjure and raise devils but I'll see some issue of my spiteful execrations.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 3)
Then there's Achilles, a rare enginer! If Troy be not taken till these two undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of themselves.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 4)
thou great thunder-darter of Olympus, forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods; and, Mercury, lose all the serpentine craft of thy caduceus, if you take not that little, little, less than little wit from them that they have, which short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant scarce it will not in circumvention deliver a fly from a spider without drawing their massy irons and cutting the web.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 5)
After this, the vengeance on the whole camp! Or rather, the Neapolitan bone-ache!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 6)
For that, methinks, is the curse depending on those that war for a placket.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 7)
have said my prayers, and devil Envy say "Amen."--What ho, my lord Achilles!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 8)
Who's there? Thersites? Good Thersites, come in and rail.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 9)
If could 'a remembered a gilt counterfeit, thou couldst not have slipped out of my contemplation.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 10)
But it is no matter. Thyself upon thyself! The common curse of mankind, folly and ignorance, be thine in great revenue!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 11)
Heaven bless thee from a tutor, and discipline come not near thee!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 12)
Let thy blood be thy direction till thy death; then if she that lays thee out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and sworn upon 't she never shrouded any but lazars.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 13)
Amen.    Where's Achilles?  What, art thou devout?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 14)
Wast thou in prayer?  Ay. The heavens hear me!  Amen.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 15)
Who's there?  Thersites, my lord.  Where? Where?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 16)
where?    Art thou come? Why, my cheese, my digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so many meals?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 17)
Come, what's Agamemnon?  Thy commander, Achilles.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 18)
--Then, tell me, Patroclus, what's Achilles?  Thy lord, Thersites.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 19)
Then, tell me, pray thee, what's Thersites?  Thy knower, Patroclus.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 20)
Then, tell me, Patroclus, what art thou?  Thou must tell that knowest.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 21)
tell, tell.  I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands Achilles, Achilles is my lord, am Patroclus' knower, and Patroclus is a fool.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 22)
You rascal!  Peace, fool. have not done.  He is a privileged man.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 23)
--Proceed, Thersites.  Agamemnon is a fool, Achilles is a fool, Thersites is a fool, and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 24)
Derive this. Come.  Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles, Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon, Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool, and this Patroclus is a fool positive.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 25)
Why am a fool?  Make that demand of the creator.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 26)
It suffices me thou art.     Look you, who comes here?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 27)
Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody.--Come in with me, Thersites.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 28)
Here is such patchery, such juggling, and such knavery.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 29)
All the argument is a whore and a cuckold, a good quarrel to draw emulous factions and bleed to death upon.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 30)
Now the dry serpigo on the subject, and war and lechery confound all!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 31)
Where is Achilles?   Within his tent, but ill-disposed, my lord.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 32)
Let it be known to him that we are here. He shent our messengers, and we lay by Our appertainments, visiting of him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 33)
Let him be told so, lest perchance he think We dare not move the question of our place Or know not what we are.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 34)
shall say so to him.   We saw him at the opening of his tent.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 35)
He is not sick.  Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 36)
You may call it melancholy if you will favor the man, but, by my head, 'tis pride.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 37)
But, why, why? Let him show us a cause.--A word, my lord.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 38)
What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?  Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 39)
Who, Thersites?  He.  Then will Ajax lack matter, if he have lost his argument.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 40)
No. You see, he is his argument that has his argument: Achilles.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 41)
All the better. Their fraction is more our wish than their faction.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 42)
But it was a strong composure a fool could disunite.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 43)
The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily untie.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 44)
Here comes Patroclus.  No Achilles with him.  The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy; his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 45)
Achilles bids me say he is much sorry If anything more than your sport and pleasure Did move your greatness and this noble state To call upon him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 46)
He hopes it is no other But for your health and your digestion sake, An after-dinner's breath.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 47)
Hear you, Patroclus: We are too well acquainted with these answers, But his evasion, winged thus swift with scorn, Cannot outfly our apprehensions.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 48)
Much attribute he hath, and much the reason Why we ascribe it to him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 49)
Yet all his virtues, Not virtuously on his own part beheld, Do in our eyes begin to lose their gloss, Yea, and like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish, Are like to rot untasted.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 50)
Go and tell him We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin If you do say we think him overproud And underhonest, in self-assumption greater Than in the note of judgment; and worthier than himself Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on, Disguise the holy strength of their command, And underwrite in an observing kind His humorous predominance--yea, watch His course and time, his ebbs and flows, as if The passage and whole carriage of this action Rode on his tide.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 51)
Go tell him this, and add That, if he overhold his price so much, We'll none of him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 52)
But let him, like an engine Not portable, lie under this report: "Bring action hither; this cannot go to war.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 53)
" stirring dwarf we do allowance give Before a sleeping giant.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 54)
Tell him so.   shall, and bring his answer presently.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 55)
In second voice we'll not be satisfied; We come to speak with him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 56)
--Ulysses, enter you.   What is he more than another?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 57)
No more than what he thinks he is.  Is he so much?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 58)
Do you not think he thinks himself a better man than am?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 59)
No question.  Will you subscribe his thought and say he is?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 60)
No, noble Ajax. You are as strong, as valiant, as wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 61)
Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? know not what pride is.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 62)
Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the fairer.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 63)
He that is proud eats up himself. Pride is his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle; and whatever praises itself but in the deed devours the deed in the praise.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 64)
do hate a proud man as hate the engendering of toads.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 65)
And yet he loves himself. Is 't not strange?      Achilles will not to the field tomorrow.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 66)
What's his excuse?  He doth rely on none, But carries on the stream of his dispose, Without observance or respect of any, In will peculiar and in self-admission.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 67)
Why, will he not, upon our fair request, Untent his person and share th' air with us?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 68)
Things small as nothing, for request's sake only, He makes important.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 69)
Possessed he is with greatness And speaks not to himself but with a pride That quarrels at self-breath.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 70)
Imagined worth Holds in his blood such swoll'n and hot discourse That 'twixt his mental and his active parts Kingdomed Achilles in commotion rages And batters down himself.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 71)
What should say? He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it Cry "No recovery.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 72)
"  Let Ajax go to him.-- Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 73)
'Tis said he holds you well and will be led At your request a little from himself.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 74)
Agamemnon, let it not be so! We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes When they go from Achilles.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 75)
Shall the proud lord That bastes his arrogance with his own seam And never suffers matter of the world Enter his thoughts, save such as doth revolve And ruminate himself--shall he be worshipped Of that we hold an idol more than he?(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 76)
No. This thrice-worthy and right valiant lord Shall not so stale his palm, nobly acquired, Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit, As amply titled as Achilles is, By going to Achilles.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 77)
That were to enlard his fat-already pride And add more coals to Cancer when he burns With entertaining great Hyperion.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 78)
This lord go to him? Jupiter forbid And say in thunder "Achilles, go to him.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 79)
"   this is well; he rubs the vein of him.   And how his silence drinks up this applause!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 80)
If go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 81)
no, you shall not go.   An he be proud with me, I'll feeze his pride.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 82)
Let me go to him.   Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 83)
paltry, insolent fellow.  How he describes himself!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 84)
Can he not be sociable?  The raven chides blackness.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 85)
I'll let his humorous blood.  He will be the physician that should be the patient.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 86)
An all men were of my mind--  Wit would be out of fashion.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 87)
--he should not bear it so; he should eat swords first.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 88)
Shall pride carry it?  An 'twould, you'd carry half.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 89)
He would have ten shares.  will knead him; I'll make him supple.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 90)
He's not yet through warm. Force him with praises.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 91)
Pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.   My lord, you feed too much on this dislike.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 92)
Our noble general, do not do so.   You must prepare to fight without Achilles.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 93)
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm. Here is a man--but 'tis before his face; will be silent.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 94)
Wherefore should you so? He is not emulous, as Achilles is.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 95)
Know the whole world, he is as valiant--  whoreson dog, that shall palter with us thus!(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 96)
Would he were a Trojan!  What a vice were it in Ajax now--  If he were proud--  Or covetous of praise--  Ay, or surly borne--  Or strange, or self-affected--   Thank the heavens, lord, thou art of sweet composure.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 97)
Praise him that gat thee, she that gave thee suck; Famed be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature Thrice famed beyond, beyond thy erudition; But he that disciplined thine arms to fight, Let Mars divide eternity in twain And give him half; and for thy vigor, Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield To sinewy Ajax.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 98)
will not praise thy wisdom, Which like a bourn, a pale, a shore confines Thy spacious and dilated parts.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 99)
Here's Nestor, Instructed by the antiquary times; He must, he is, he cannot but be wise.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 100)
-- But pardon, father Nestor, were your days As green as Ajax' and your brain so tempered, You should not have the eminence of him, But be as Ajax.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 101)
Shall call you father?   Ay, my good son.  Be ruled by him, Lord Ajax.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 102)
There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles Keeps thicket.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 103)
Please it our great general To call together all his state of war.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 104)
Fresh kings are come to Troy. Tomorrow We must with all our main of power stand fast.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 105)
And here's a lord--come knights from east to west And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 106)
Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep. Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.(Troilus and Cressida, Act 2, Scene 107)
What, have 'scaped love letters in the holiday time of my beauty, and am now a subject for them?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 0)
Let me see.  Ask me no reason why love you, for though Love use Reason for his precisian, he admits him not for his counselor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 1)
You are not young; no more am Go to, then, there's sympathy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 2)
You are merry; so am Ha, ha, then, there's more sympathy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 3)
You love sack, and so do Would you desire better sympathy?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 4)
Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page--at the least, if the love of soldier can suffice--that love thee.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 5)
will not say pity me--'tis not a soldier-like phrase--but say love me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 6)
By me, Thine own true knight, By day or night, Or any kind of light, With all his might For thee to fight, John Falstaff.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 7)
What a Herod of Jewry is this! wicked, wicked world!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 8)
One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with age, to show himself a young gallant!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 9)
What an unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard picked--with the devil's name!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 10)
--out of my conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 11)
Why, he hath not been thrice in my company! What should say to him?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 12)
was then frugal of my mirth. Heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill in the Parliament for the putting down of men.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 13)
How shall be revenged on him? For revenged will be, as sure as his guts are made of puddings.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 14)
Mistress Page! Trust me, was going to your house.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 15)
And, trust me, was coming to you. You look very ill.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 16)
Nay, I'll ne'er believe that. have to show to the contrary.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 17)
Faith, but you do, in my mind.  Well, do, then. Yet say could show you to the contrary.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 18)
Mistress Page, give me some counsel.  What's the matter, woman?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 19)
woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, could come to such honor!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 20)
Hang the trifle, woman; take the honor. What is it?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 21)
Dispense with trifles. What is it?  If would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so, could be knighted.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 22)
What, thou liest! Sir Alice Ford? These knights will hack, and so thou shouldst not alter the article of thy gentry.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 23)
We burn daylight. Here, read, read. Perceive how might be knighted.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 24)
shall think the worse of fat men as long as have an eye to make difference of men's liking.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 25)
And yet he would not swear; praised women's modesty; and gave such orderly and well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness that would have sworn his disposition would have gone to the truth of his words.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 26)
But they do no more adhere and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to the tune of "Greensleeves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 27)
" What tempest, trow, threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his belly, ashore at Windsor?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 28)
How shall be revenged on him? think the best way were to entertain him with hope till the wicked fire of lust have melted him in his own grease.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 29)
Did you ever hear the like?  Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and Ford differs!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 30)
To thy great comfort in this mystery of ill opinions, here's the twin brother of thy letter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 31)
But let thine inherit first, for protest mine never shall.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 32)
warrant he hath a thousand of these letters writ with blank space for different names--sure, more--and these are of the second edition.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 33)
He will print them, out of doubt; for he cares not what he puts into the press, when he would put us two.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 34)
had rather be a giantess and lie under Mount Pelion.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 35)
Well, will find you twenty lascivious turtles ere one chaste man.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 36)
Why, this is the very same--the very hand, the very words.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 37)
What doth he think of us?  Nay, know not. It makes me almost ready to wrangle with mine own honesty.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 38)
I'll entertain myself like one that am not acquainted withal; for, sure, unless he know some strain in me that know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 39)
"Boarding" call you it? I'll be sure to keep him above deck.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 40)
So will If he come under my hatches, I'll never to sea again.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 41)
Let's be revenged on him. Let's appoint him a meeting, give him a show of comfort in his suit, and lead him on with a fine-baited delay till he hath pawned his horses to mine Host of the Garter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 42)
Nay, will consent to act any villainy against him that may not sully the chariness of our honesty.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 43)
that my husband saw this letter! It would give eternal food to his jealousy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 44)
Why, look where he comes, and my good man too. He's as far from jealousy as am from giving him cause, and that, hope, is an unmeasurable distance.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 45)
You are the happier woman.  Let's consult together against this greasy knight.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 46)
Come hither.     Well, hope it be not so.   Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 47)
Sir John affects thy wife.  Why, sir, my wife is not young.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 48)
He woos both high and low, both rich and poor, Both young and old, one with another, Ford.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 49)
He loves the gallimaufry. Ford, perpend.  Love my wife?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 50)
With liver burning hot. Prevent, Or go thou like Sir Acteon, he, With Ringwood at thy heels.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 51)
odious is the name!  What name, sir?  The horn, say.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 52)
Farewell. Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 53)
Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo birds do sing.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 54)
-- Away, Sir Corporal Nym.--Believe it, Page. He speaks sense.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 55)
will be patient. will find out this.  And this is true.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 56)
like not the humor of lying. He hath wronged me in some humors.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 57)
should have borne the humored letter to her; but have a sword, and it shall bite upon my necessity.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 58)
He loves your wife; there's the short and the long.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 59)
My name is Corporal Nym. speak and avouch. 'Tis true.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 60)
My name is Nym, and Falstaff loves your wife. Adieu.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 61)
love not the humor of bread and cheese. Adieu.  "The humor of it," quoth he?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 62)
Here's a fellow frights English out of his wits.  will seek out Falstaff.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 63)
never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.  If do find it--well.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 64)
will not believe such a Cataian, though the priest o' th' town commended him for a true man.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 65)
'Twas a good sensible fellow--well.      How now, Meg?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 66)
Whither go you, George? Hark you.   How now, sweet Frank?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 67)
Why art thou melancholy?  melancholy? am not melancholy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 68)
Get you home. Go.  Faith, thou hast some crochets in thy head now.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 69)
--Will you go, Mistress Page?  Have with you.--You'll come to dinner, George?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 70)
Look who comes yonder.    She shall be our messenger to this paltry knight.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 71)
Trust me, thought on her. She'll fit it.  You are come to see my daughter Anne?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 72)
Ay, forsooth. And, pray, how does good Mistress Anne?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 73)
Go in with us and see. We have an hour's talk with you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 74)
How now, Master Ford?  You heard what this knave told me, did you not?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 75)
Yes, and you heard what the other told me?  Do you think there is truth in them?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 76)
Hang 'em, slaves! do not think the knight would offer it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 77)
But these that accuse him in his intent towards our wives are a yoke of his discarded men, very rogues, now they be out of service.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 78)
Were they his men?  Marry, were they.  like it never the better for that.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 79)
Does he lie at the Garter?  Ay, marry, does he. If he should intend this voyage toward my wife, would turn her loose to him; and what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it lie on my head.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 80)
do not misdoubt my wife, but would be loath to turn them together.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 81)
man may be too confident. would have nothing lie on my head.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 82)
cannot be thus satisfied.     Look where my ranting Host of the Garter comes.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 83)
There is either liquor in his pate or money in his purse when he looks so merrily.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 84)
--How now, mine Host?  How now, bullyrook? Thou 'rt a gentleman.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 85)
-- Cavaleiro Justice, say!     follow, mine Host, follow.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 86)
--Good even and twenty, good Master Page. Master Page, will you go with us?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 87)
We have sport in hand.  Tell him, Cavaleiro Justice; tell him, bullyrook.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 88)
Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh the Welsh priest and Caius the French doctor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 89)
Good mine Host o' th' Garter, a word with you.  What say'st thou, my bullyrook?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 90)
Will you go with us to behold it? My merry Host hath had the measuring of their weapons and, think, hath appointed them contrary places; for, believe me, hear the parson is no jester.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 91)
Hark, will tell you what our sport shall be.   Hast thou no suit against my knight, my guest cavalier?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 92)
None, protest. But I'll give you a pottle of burnt sack to give me recourse to him, and tell him my name is Brook--only for a jest.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 93)
My hand, bully. Thou shalt have egress and regress--said well?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 94)
--and thy name shall be Brook. It is a merry knight.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 95)
Will you go, ameers?  Have with you, mine Host.  have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in his rapier.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 96)
Tut, sir, could have told you more. In these times you stand on distance--your passes, stoccados, and know not what.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 97)
'Tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis here, 'tis here.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 98)
have seen the time, with my long sword would have made you four tall fellows skip like rats.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 99)
Here, boys, here, here! Shall we wag?  Have with you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 100)
had rather hear them scold than fight.  Though Page be a secure fool and stands so firmly on his wife's frailty, yet cannot put off my opinion so easily.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 101)
She was in his company at Page's house, and what they made there know not.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 102)
Well, will look further into 't, and have a disguise to sound Falstaff.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 103)
If find her honest, lose not my labor. If she be otherwise, 'tis labor well bestowed.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 0, Scene 104)
will not lend thee a penny.  Why then, the world's mine oyster, which with sword will open.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 0)
Not a penny. have been content, sir, you should lay my countenance to pawn.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 1)
have grated upon my good friends for three reprieves for you and your coach-fellow Nym, or else you had looked through the grate like a gemini of baboons.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 2)
am damned in hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends you were good soldiers and tall fellows.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 3)
And when Mistress Bridget lost the handle of her fan, took 't upon mine honor thou hadst it not.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 4)
Didst not thou share? Hadst thou not fifteen pence?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 5)
Reason, you rogue, reason. Think'st thou I'll endanger my soul gratis?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 6)
At a word, hang no more about me. am no gibbet for you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 7)
Go--a short knife and a throng--to your manor of Pickt-hatch, go.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 8)
You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue? You stand upon your honor?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 9)
Why, thou unconfinable baseness, it is as much as can do to keep the terms of my honor precise.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 10)
Ay, ay, myself sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand and hiding mine honor in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge, and to lurch; and yet you, rogue, will ensconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your bold beating oaths under the shelter of your honor!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 11)
You will not do it? You?  do relent. What would thou more of man?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 12)
Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.  Let her approach.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 13)
Give your Worship good morrow.  Good morrow, goodwife.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 14)
Not so, an 't please your Worship.  Good maid, then.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 15)
I'll be sworn--as my mother was, the first hour was born.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 16)
do believe the swearer. What with me?  Shall vouchsafe your Worship a word or two?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 17)
Two thousand, fair woman, and I'll vouchsafe thee the hearing.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 18)
There is one Mistress Ford, sir--I pray, come a little nearer this ways.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 19)
myself dwell with Master Doctor Caius.  Well, on.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 20)
"Mistress Ford," you say--  Your Worship says very true.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 21)
pray your Worship, come a little nearer this ways.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 22)
warrant thee, nobody hears. Mine own people, mine own people.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 23)
Are they so? God bless them and make them His servants!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 24)
Well, "Mistress Ford"--what of her?  Why, sir, she's a good creature.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 25)
Lord, Lord, your Worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you and all of us, pray!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 26)
"Mistress Ford"--come, "Mistress Ford"--  Marry, this is the short and the long of it: you have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis wonderful.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 27)
The best courtier of them all, when the court lay at Windsor, could never have brought her to such a canary.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 28)
Yet there has been knights, and lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, warrant you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift after gift, smelling so sweetly--all musk--and so rushling, warrant you, in silk and gold, and in such alligant terms, and in such wine and sugar of the best and the fairest, that would have won any woman's heart; and, warrant you, they could never get an eye-wink of her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 29)
had myself twenty angels given me this morning, but defy all angels in any such sort, as they say, but in the way of honesty.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 30)
And, warrant you, they could never get her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of them all.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 31)
And yet there has been earls--nay, which is more, pensioners--but, warrant you, all is one with her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 32)
But what says she to me? Be brief, my good she-Mercury.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 33)
Marry, she hath received your letter, for the which she thanks you a thousand times, and she gives you to notify that her husband will be absence from his house between ten and eleven.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 34)
Ten and eleven?  Ay, forsooth; and then you may come and see the picture, she says, that you wot of.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 35)
Master Ford, her husband, will be from home. Alas, the sweet woman leads an ill life with him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 36)
He's a very jealousy man. She leads a very frampold life with him, good heart.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 37)
Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her. will not fail her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 38)
Why, you say well. But have another messenger to your Worship.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 39)
Mistress Page hath her hearty commendations to you too; and, let me tell you in your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and one, tell you, that will not miss you morning nor evening prayer, as any is in Windsor, whoe'er be the other.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 40)
And she bade me tell your Worship that her husband is seldom from home, but she hopes there will come a time.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 41)
never knew a woman so dote upon a man. Surely, think you have charms, la!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 42)
Yes, in truth.  Not assure thee. Setting the attraction of my good parts aside, have no other charms.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 43)
Blessing on your heart for 't!  But pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 44)
That were a jest indeed! They have not so little grace, hope.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 45)
That were a trick indeed! But Mistress Page would desire you to send her your little page, of all loves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 46)
Her husband has a marvelous infection to the little page; and, truly, Master Page is an honest man.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 47)
Never a wife in Windsor leads a better life than she does.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 48)
Do what she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go to bed when she list, rise when she list--all is as she will.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 49)
And, truly, she deserves it, for if there be a kind woman in Windsor, she is one.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 50)
You must send her your page, no remedy.  Why, will.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 51)
Nay, but do so then, and, look you, he may come and go between you both.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 52)
And in any case have a nayword, that you may know one another's mind, and the boy never need to understand anything; for 'tis not good that children should know any wickedness.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 53)
Old folks, you know, have discretion, as they say, and know the world.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 54)
Fare thee well. Commend me to them both. There's my purse.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 55)
am yet thy debtor.--Boy, go along with this woman.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 56)
This news distracts me.   This punk is one of Cupid's carriers.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 57)
Clap on more sails, pursue; up with your fights; Give fire!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 58)
She is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!   Sayst thou so, old Jack?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 59)
Go thy ways. I'll make more of thy old body than have done.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 60)
Will they yet look after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense of so much money, be now a gainer?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 61)
Good body, thank thee. Let them say 'tis grossly done; so it be fairly done, no matter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 62)
Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain speak with you and be acquainted with you, and hath sent your Worship a morning's draught of sack.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 63)
Brook is his name?  Ay, sir.  Call him in. Such Brooks are welcome to me that o'erflows such liquor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 64)
Ah ha, Mistress Ford and Mistress Page, have encompassed you?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 65)
Go to. Via!     God bless you, sir.  And you, sir.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 66)
Would you speak with me?  make bold to press with so little preparation upon you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 67)
You're welcome. What's your will?--Give us leave, drawer.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 68)
Sir, am a gentleman that have spent much. My name is Brook.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 69)
Good Master Brook, desire more acquaintance of you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 70)
Good Sir John, sue for yours--not to charge you, for must let you understand think myself in better plight for a lender than you are, the which hath something emboldened me to this unseasoned intrusion; for they say, if money go before, all ways do lie open.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 71)
Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.  Troth, and have a bag of money here troubles me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 72)
If you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or half, for easing me of the carriage.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 73)
Sir, know not how may deserve to be your porter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 74)
will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 75)
Speak, good Master Brook. shall be glad to be your servant.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 76)
Sir, hear you are a scholar--I will be brief with you--and you have been a man long known to me, though had never so good means as desire to make myself acquainted with you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 77)
shall discover a thing to you wherein must very much lay open mine own imperfection.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 78)
But, good Sir John, as you have one eye upon my follies, as you hear them unfolded, turn another into the register of your own, that may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 79)
Very well, sir. Proceed.  There is a gentlewoman in this town--her husband's name is Ford.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 80)
Well, sir.  have long loved her and, protest to you, bestowed much on her, followed her with a doting observance, engrossed opportunities to meet her, fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly give me sight of her, not only bought many presents to give her, but have given largely to many to know what she would have given.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 81)
Briefly, have pursued her as love hath pursued me, which hath been on the wing of all occasions.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 82)
But whatsoever have merited, either in my mind or in my means, meed am sure have received none, unless experience be a jewel.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 83)
That have purchased at an infinite rate, and that hath taught me to say this: "Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues, Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 84)
"  Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 85)
Never.  Have you importuned her to such a purpose?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 86)
Never.  Of what quality was your love, then?  Like a fair house built on another man's ground, so that have lost my edifice by mistaking the place where erected it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 87)
To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?  When have told you that, have told you all.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 88)
Some say that though she appear honest to me, yet in other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that there is shrewd construction made of her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 89)
Now, Sir John, here is the heart of my purpose: you are a gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your place and person, generally allowed for your many warlike, courtlike, and learned preparations.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 90)
sir!  Believe it, for you know it. There is money.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 91)
Spend it, spend it, spend more; spend all have. Only give me so much of your time in exchange of it as to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this Ford's wife.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 92)
Use your art of wooing; win her to consent to you.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 93)
If any man may, you may as soon as any.  Would it apply well to the vehemency of your affection that should win what you would enjoy?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 94)
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 95)
understand my drift. She dwells so securely on the excellency of her honor that the folly of my soul dares not present itself; she is too bright to be looked against.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 96)
Now, could come to her with any detection in my hand, my desires had instance and argument to commend themselves.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 97)
could drive her then from the ward of her purity, her reputation, her marriage vow, and a thousand other her defenses, which now are too too strongly embattled against me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 98)
What say you to 't, Sir John?  Master Brook, will first make bold with your money; next, give me your hand; and, last, as am a gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 99)
good sir!  say you shall.  Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 100)
Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall want none.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 101)
shall be with her, may tell you, by her own appointment.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 102)
Even as you came in to me, her assistant or go-between parted from me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 103)
say shall be with her between ten and eleven, for at that time the jealous, rascally knave her husband will be forth.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 104)
Come you to me at night. You shall know how speed.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 105)
am blessed in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford, sir?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 106)
Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! know him not. Yet wrong him to call him poor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 107)
They say the jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money, for the which his wife seems to me well-favored.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 108)
will use her as the key of the cuckoldly rogue's coffer, and there's my harvest home.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 109)
would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him if you saw him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 110)
Hang him, mechanical salt-butter rogue! will stare him out of his wits.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 111)
will awe him with my cudgel; it shall hang like a meteor o'er the cuckold's horns.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 112)
Master Brook, thou shalt know will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt lie with his wife.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 113)
Come to me soon at night. Ford's a knave, and will aggravate his style.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 114)
Thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and cuckold.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 115)
Come to me soon at night.  What a damned epicurean rascal is this!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 116)
My heart is ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is improvident jealousy?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 117)
My wife hath sent to him, the hour is fixed, the match is made.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 118)
Would any man have thought this? See the hell of having a false woman: my bed shall be abused, my coffers ransacked, my reputation gnawn at.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 119)
And shall not only receive this villainous wrong but stand under the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that does me this wrong.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 120)
Terms, names! "Amaimon" sounds well, "Lucifer" well, "Barbason" well; yet they are devils' additions, the names of fiends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 121)
But "Cuckold," "Wittoll," "Cuckold"! The devil himself hath not such a name.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 122)
Page is an ass, a secure ass. He will trust his wife, he will not be jealous.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 123)
will rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my aquavitae bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling gelding, than my wife with herself.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 124)
Then she plots, then she ruminates, then she devises; and what they think in their hearts they may effect, they will break their hearts but they will effect.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 125)
God be praised for my jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 126)
will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on Falstaff, and laugh at Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 127)
will about it. Better three hours too soon than a minute too late.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 1, Scene 128)
Jack Rugby.  Sir?  Vat is the clock, Jack?  'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 0)
By gar, he has save his soul dat he is no come. He has pray his Pible well dat he is no come.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 1)
By gar, Jack Rugby, he is dead already if he be come.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 2)
He is wise, sir. He knew your Worship would kill him if he came.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 3)
By gar, de herring is no dead so as vill kill him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 4)
Take your rapier, Jack. vill tell you how vill kill him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 5)
Alas, sir, cannot fence.  Villainy, take your rapier.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 6)
Forbear. Here's company.     God bless thee, bully doctor!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 7)
God save you, Master Doctor Caius!  Now, good Master Doctor!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 8)
Give you good morrow, sir.  Vat be all you, one, two, tree, four, come for?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 9)
To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee traverse; to see thee here, to see thee there; to see thy pass, thy puncto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy distance, thy montant.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 10)
Is he dead, my Ethiopian? Is he dead, my Francisco?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 11)
Ha, bully? What says my Aesculapius, my Galien, my heart of elder, ha?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 12)
Is he dead, bully stale? Is he dead?  By gar, he is de coward jack-priest of de vorld.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 13)
He is not show his face.  Thou art a Castalion King Urinal Hector of Greece, my boy!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 14)
pray you, bear witness that me have stay six or seven, two, tree hours for him, and he is no come.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 15)
He is the wiser man, Master Doctor. He is a curer of souls, and you a curer of bodies.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 16)
If you should fight, you go against the hair of your professions.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 17)
-- Is it not true, Master Page?  Master Shallow, you have yourself been a great fighter, though now a man of peace.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 18)
Bodykins, Master Page, though now be old and of the peace, if see a sword out, my finger itches to make one.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 19)
Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our youth in us.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 20)
We are the sons of women, Master Page.  'Tis true, Master Shallow.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 21)
It will be found so, Master Page.--Master Doctor Caius, am come to fetch you home.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 22)
am sworn of the peace. You have showed yourself a wise physician, and Sir Hugh hath shown himself a wise and patient churchman.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 23)
You must go with me, Master Doctor.  Pardon, guest Justice.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 24)
word, Monsieur Mockwater.  "Mockvater"? Vat is dat?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 25)
"Mockwater," in our English tongue, is "valor," bully.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 26)
By gar, then have as much mockvater as de Englishman.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 27)
Scurvy jack-dog priest! By gar, me vill cut his ears.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 28)
He will clapper-claw thee tightly, bully.  "Clapper-de-claw"?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 29)
Vat is dat?  That is, he will make thee amends.  By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me, for, by gar, me vill have it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 30)
And will provoke him to 't, or let him wag.  Me tank you for dat.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 31)
And moreover, bully-- But first, Master guest, and Master Page, and eke Cavaleiro Slender, go you through the town to Frogmore.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 32)
Sir Hugh is there, is he?  He is there. See what humor he is in; and will bring the doctor about by the fields.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 33)
Will it do well?  We will do it.  and Adieu, good Master Doctor.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 34)
By gar, me vill kill de priest, for he speak for a jackanape to Anne Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 35)
Let him die. Sheathe thy impatience; throw cold water on thy choler.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 36)
Go about the fields with me through Frogmore. will bring thee where Mistress Anne Page is, at a farmhouse a-feasting, and thou shalt woo her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 37)
Cried game! Said well?  By gar, me dank you vor dat.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 38)
By gar, love you, and shall procure-a you de good guest: de earl, de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 39)
For the which will be thy adversary toward Anne Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 40)
Said well?  By gar, 'tis good. Vell said.  Let us wag, then.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 2, Scene 41)
pray you now, good Master Slender's servingman and friend Simple by your name, which way have you looked for Master Caius, that calls himself doctor of physic?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 0)
Marry, sir, the Petty-ward, the Park-ward, every way; Old Windsor way, and every way but the town way.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 1)
most fehemently desire you, you will also look that way.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 2)
will, sir.  Pless my soul, how full of cholers am, and trempling of mind!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 3)
shall be glad if he have deceived me. How melancholies am!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 4)
will knog his urinals about his knave's costard when have good opportunities for the 'ork.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 5)
Pless my soul!  To shallow rivers, to whose falls Melodious birds sings madrigals.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 6)
There will we make our peds of roses And a thousand fragrant posies.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 7)
To shallow-- Mercy on me, have a great dispositions to cry.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 8)
Melodious birds sing madrigals-- Whenas sat in Pabylon-- And a thousand vagram posies.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 9)
To shallow rivers, to whose falls Melodious birds sings madrigals.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 10)
Yonder he is, coming this way, Sir Hugh.  He's welcome.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 11)
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-- Heaven prosper the right!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 12)
What weapons is he?  No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over the stile, this way.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 13)
Pray you, give me my gown--or else keep it in your arms.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 14)
How now, Master Parson? Good morrow, good Sir Hugh.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 15)
Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student from his book, and it is wonderful.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 16)
Ah, sweet Anne Page!  God save you, good Sir Hugh!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 17)
God pless you from His mercy sake, all of you!  What, the sword and the word?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 18)
Do you study them both, Master Parson?  And youthful still--in your doublet and hose this raw rheumatic day?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 19)
There is reasons and causes for it.  We are come to you to do a good office, Master Parson.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 20)
Fery well. What is it?  Yonder is a most reverend gentleman who, belike having received wrong by some person, is at most odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you saw.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 21)
have lived fourscore years and upward. never heard a man of his place, gravity, and learning so wide of his own respect.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 22)
What is he?  think you know him: Master Doctor Caius, the renowned French physician.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 23)
Got's will and His passion of my heart! had as lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 24)
Why?  He has no more knowledge in Hibbocrates and Galen--and he is a knave besides, a cowardly knave as you would desires to be acquainted withal.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 25)
warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 26)
sweet Anne Page!  It appears so by his weapons. Keep them asunder.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 27)
Here comes Doctor Caius.      Nay, good Master Parson, keep in your weapon.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 28)
So do you, good Master Doctor.  Disarm them, and let them question.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 29)
Let them keep their limbs whole and hack our English.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 30)
pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear. Verefore vill you not meet-a me?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 31)
Pray you, use your patience. In good time.  By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 32)
Pray you, let us not be laughing-stocks to other men's humors.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 33)
desire you in friendship, and will one way or other make you amends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 34)
By Jeshu, will knog your urinal about your knave's cogscomb.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 35)
Diable! Jack Rugby, mine Host de Jarteer, have not stay for him to kill him?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 36)
Have not, at de place did appoint?  As am a Christians soul, now look you, this is the place appointed.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 37)
I'll be judgment by mine Host of the Garter.  Peace, say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh, soul-curer and body-curer!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 38)
Ay, dat is very good, excellent.  Peace, say! Hear mine Host of the Garter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 39)
Am politic? Am subtle? Am a Machiavel? Shall lose my doctor?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 40)
No, he gives me the potions and the motions. Shall lose my parson, my priest, my Sir Hugh?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 41)
No, he gives me the proverbs and the no-verbs.  Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 42)
Give me thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, have deceived you both.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 43)
have directed you to wrong places. Your hearts are mighty, your skins are whole, and let burnt sack be the issue.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 44)
Come, lay their swords to pawn.  Follow me, lads of peace, follow, follow, follow.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 45)
Afore God, a mad Host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 46)
sweet Anne Page!   Ha, do perceive dat? Have you make-a de sot of us, ha, ha?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 47)
This is well! He has made us his vloutingstog. desire you that we may be friends, and let us knog our prains together to be revenge on this same scall, scurvy, cogging companion, the Host of the Garter.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 48)
By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me where is Anne Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 49)
By gar, he deceive me too.  Well, will smite his noddles.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 23, Scene 50)
Nay, keep your way, little gallant. You were wont to be a follower, but now you are a leader.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 0)
Whether had you rather--lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 1)
had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man than follow him like a dwarf.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 2)
you are a flattering boy! Now see you'll be a courtier.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 3)
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?  Truly, sir, to see your wife.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 4)
Is she at home?  Ay, and as idle as she may hang together, for want of company.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 5)
think if your husbands were dead, you two would marry.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 6)
Be sure of that--two other husbands.  Where had you this pretty weathercock?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 7)
cannot tell what the dickens his name is my husband had him of.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 8)
--What do you call your knight's name, sirrah?  Sir John Falstaff.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 9)
Sir John Falstaff!  He, he. can never hit on 's name.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 10)
There is such a league between my goodman and he.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 11)
Is your wife at home indeed?  Indeed, she is.  By your leave, sir.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 12)
am sick till see her.  Has Page any brains? Hath he any eyes?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 13)
Hath he any thinking? Sure they sleep; he hath no use of them.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 14)
Why, this boy will carry a letter twenty mile as easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve score.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 15)
He pieces out his wife's inclination. He gives her folly motion and advantage.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 16)
And now she's going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 17)
man may hear this shower sing in the wind. And Falstaff's boy with her!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 18)
Good plots they are laid, and our revolted wives share damnation together.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 19)
Well, will take him, then torture my wife, pluck the borrowed veil of modesty from the so-seeming Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and willful Acteon, and to these violent proceedings all my neighbors shall cry aim.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 20)
clock The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me search.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 21)
There shall find Falstaff. shall be rather praised for this than mocked, for it is as positive as the earth is firm that Falstaff is there.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 22)
will go.      Well met, Master Ford.  Trust me, a good knot.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 23)
have good cheer at home, and pray you all go with me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 24)
must excuse myself, Master Ford.  And so must sir.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 25)
We have appointed to dine with Mistress Anne, and would not break with her for more money than I'll speak of.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 26)
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 27)
hope have your good will, Father Page.  You have, Master Slender.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 28)
stand wholly for you.--But my wife, Master Doctor, is for you altogether.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 29)
Ay, be-gar, and de maid is love-a me! My nursh-a Quickly tell me so mush.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 30)
What say you to young Master Fenton? He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he speaks holiday, he smells April and May.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 31)
He will carry 't, he will carry 't. 'Tis in his buttons he will carry 't.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 32)
Not by my consent, promise you. The gentleman is of no having.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 33)
He kept company with the wild Prince and Poins. He is of too high a region; he knows too much.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 34)
No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes with the finger of my substance.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 35)
If he take her, let him take her simply. The wealth have waits on my consent, and my consent goes not that way.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 36)
beseech you heartily, some of you go home with me to dinner.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 37)
Besides your cheer, you shall have sport: will show you a monster.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 38)
Master Doctor, you shall go.--So shall you, Master Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 39)
-- And you, Sir Hugh.  Well, fare you well. We shall have the freer wooing at Master Page's.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 40)
Go home, John Rugby. come anon.   Farewell, my hearts.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 41)
will to my honest knight Falstaff, and drink canary with him.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 42)
think shall drink in pipe-wine first with him; I'll make him dance.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 43)
--Will you go, gentles?  and Have with you to see this monster.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 24, Scene 44)
3       What, John! What, Robert!  Quickly, quickly!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 0)
Is the buck-basket--  warrant.--What, Robert, say!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 1)
Come, come, come.  Here, set it down.  Give your men the charge.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 2)
We must be brief.  Marry, as told you before, John and Robert, be ready here hard by in the brewhouse, and when suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause or staggering take this basket on your shoulders.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 3)
That done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry it among the whitsters in Datchet Mead, and there empty it in the muddy ditch close by the Thames side.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 4)
You will do it?  ha' told them over and over. They lack no direction.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 5)
--Be gone, and come when you are called.  Here comes little Robin.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 6)
How now, my eyas-musket? What news with you?  My master, Sir John, is come in at your back door, Mistress Ford, and requests your company.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 7)
You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 8)
Ay, I'll be sworn. My master knows not of your being here and hath threatened to put me into everlasting liberty if tell you of it, for he swears he'll turn me away.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 9)
Thou 'rt a good boy. This secrecy of thine shall be a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet and hose.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 10)
--I'll go hide me.  Do so.--Go tell thy master am alone.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 11)
Mistress Page, remember you your cue.  warrant thee.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 12)
If do not act it, hiss me.  Go to, then. We'll use this unwholesome humidity, this gross-wat'ry pumpion.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 13)
We'll teach him to know turtles from jays.     "Have caught thee, my heavenly jewel?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 14)
" Why, now let me die, for have lived long enough.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 15)
This is the period of my ambition. this blessed hour!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 16)
sweet Sir John!  Mistress Ford, cannot cog. cannot prate, Mistress Ford.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 17)
Now shall sin in my wish: would thy husband were dead.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 18)
I'll speak it before the best lord: would make thee my lady.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 19)
your lady, Sir John? Alas, should be a pitiful lady.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 20)
Let the court of France show me such another. see how thine eye would emulate the diamond.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 21)
Thou hast the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of Venetian admittance.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 22)
plain kerchief, Sir John. My brows become nothing else, nor that well neither.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 23)
Thou art a tyrant to say so. Thou wouldst make an absolute courtier, and the firm fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait in a semicircled farthingale.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 24)
see what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature thy friend.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 25)
Come, thou canst not hide it.  Believe me, there's no such thing in me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 26)
What made me love thee? Let that persuade thee. There's something extraordinary in thee.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 27)
Come, cannot cog and say thou art this and that like a many of these lisping hawthorn buds that come like women in men's apparel and smell like Bucklersbury in simple time.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 28)
cannot. But love thee, none but thee; and thou deserv'st it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 29)
Do not betray me, sir. fear you love Mistress Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 30)
Thou mightst as well say love to walk by the Counter gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek of a lime-kiln.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 31)
Well, heaven knows how love you, and you shall one day find it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 32)
Keep in that mind. I'll deserve it.  Nay, must tell you, so you do, or else could not be in that mind.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 33)
Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! Here's Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 34)
She shall not see me. will ensconce me behind the arras.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 35)
Pray you, do so. She's a very tattling woman.    What's the matter?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 36)
How now?  Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed, you're overthrown, you're undone forever!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 37)
What's the matter, good Mistress Page?  well-a-day, Mistress Ford, having an honest man to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 38)
What cause of suspicion?  What cause of suspicion?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 39)
Out upon you! How am mistook in you!  Why, alas, what's the matter?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 40)
Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the officers in Windsor, to search for a gentleman that he says is here now in the house, by your consent, to take an ill advantage of his absence.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 41)
You are undone.  'Tis not so, hope.  Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man here!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 42)
But 'tis most certain your husband's coming, with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a one.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 43)
come before to tell you. If you know yourself clear, why, am glad of it.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 44)
But if you have a friend here, convey, convey him out.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 45)
Be not amazed! Call all your senses to you; defend your reputation, or bid farewell to your good life forever.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 46)
What shall do? There is a gentleman, my dear friend; and fear not mine own shame so much as his peril.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 47)
had rather than a thousand pound he were out of the house.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 48)
For shame! Never stand "you had rather" and "you had rather.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 49)
" Your husband's here at hand. Bethink you of some conveyance.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 50)
In the house you cannot hide him. how have you deceived me!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 51)
Look, here is a basket. If he be of any reasonable stature, he may creep in here; and throw foul linen upon him, as if it were going to bucking.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 52)
Or--it is whiting time--send him by your two men to Datchet Mead.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 53)
He's too big to go in there. What shall do?  Let me see 't, let me see 't!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 54)
let me see 't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's counsel.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 55)
I'll in.  What, Sir John Falstaff? Are these your letters, knight?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 56)
love thee. Help me away. Let me creep in here. I'll never--       Help to cover your master, boy.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 57)
--Call your men, Mistress Ford.--You dissembling knight!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 58)
What, John! Robert! John!    Go, take up these clothes here quickly.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 59)
Where's the cowlstaff? Look how you drumble! Carry them to the laundress in Datchet Mead.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 60)
Quickly! Come.      Pray you, come near. If suspect without cause, why then make sport at me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 61)
Then let me be your jest; deserve it.--How now? Whither bear you this?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 62)
and To the laundress, forsooth.  Why, what have you to do whither they bear it?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 63)
You were best meddle with buck-washing!  Buck? would could wash myself of the buck.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 64)
Buck, buck, buck! Ay, buck! warrant you, buck, and of the season too, it shall appear.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 65)
Gentlemen, have dreamed tonight; I'll tell you my dream.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 66)
Here, here, here be my keys. Ascend my chambers. Search, seek, find out.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 67)
I'll warrant we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 68)
So, now uncape.  Good Master Ford, be contented. You wrong yourself too much.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 69)
True, Master Page.--Up, gentlemen. You shall see sport anon.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 70)
Follow me, gentlemen.  This is fery fantastical humors and jealousies.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 71)
By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France. It is not jealous in France.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 72)
Nay, follow him, gentlemen. See the issue of his search.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 73)
Is there not a double excellency in this?  know not which pleases me better-- that my husband is deceived, or Sir John.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 74)
What a taking was he in when your husband asked who was in the basket!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 75)
am half afraid he will have need of washing, so throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 76)
Hang him, dishonest rascal! would all of the same strain were in the same distress.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 77)
think my husband hath some special suspicion of Falstaff's being here, for never saw him so gross in his jealousy till now.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 78)
will lay a plot to try that, and we will yet have more tricks with Falstaff.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 79)
His dissolute disease will scarce obey this medicine.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 80)
Shall we send that foolish carrion Mistress Quickly to him, and excuse his throwing into the water, and give him another hope, to betray him to another punishment?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 81)
We will do it. Let him be sent for tomorrow eight o'clock to have amends.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 82)
cannot find him. Maybe the knave bragged of that he could not compass.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 83)
Heard you that?  You use me well, Master Ford, do you?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 84)
Ay, do so.  Heaven make you better than your thoughts!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 85)
Amen!  You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 86)
Ay, ay. must bear it.  If there be anypody in the house, and in the chambers, and in the coffers, and in the presses, heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 87)
Be gar, nor too. There is nobodies.  Fie, fie, Master Ford, are you not ashamed?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 88)
What spirit, what devil suggests this imagination?(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 89)
would not ha' your distemper in this kind for the wealth of Windsor Castle.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 90)
'Tis my fault, Master Page. suffer for it.  You suffer for a pad conscience.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 91)
Your wife is as honest a 'omans as will desires among five thousand, and five hundred too.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 92)
By gar, see 'tis an honest woman.  Well, promised you a dinner.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 93)
Come, come, walk in the park. pray you, pardon me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 94)
will hereafter make known to you why have done this.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 95)
--Come, wife--come, Mistress Page, pray you, pardon me.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 96)
Pray, heartily, pardon me.   Let's go in, gentlemen.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 97)
But, trust me, we'll mock him. do invite you tomorrow morning to my house to breakfast.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 98)
After, we'll a-birding together; have a fine hawk for the bush.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 99)
Shall it be so?  Anything.  If there is one, shall make two in the company.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 100)
If there be one or two, shall make-a the turd.  Pray you, go, Master Page.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 101)
pray you now, remembrance tomorrow on the lousy knave mine Host.(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 102)
Dat is good, by gar, with all my heart.  lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!(The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act 25, Scene 103)
Take the boy to you. He so troubles me 'Tis past enduring.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 0)
Come, my gracious lord, Shall be your playfellow?(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 1)
No, I'll none of you.  Why, my sweet lord?   You'll kiss me hard and speak to me as if were a baby still.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 2)
--I love you better.   And why so, my lord?  Not for because Your brows are blacker--yet black brows, they say, Become some women best, so that there be not Too much hair there, but in a semicircle, Or a half-moon made with a pen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 3)
Who taught this?   learned it out of women's faces.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 4)
--Pray now, What color are your eyebrows?  Blue, my lord.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 5)
Nay, that's a mock. have seen a lady's nose That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 6)
Hark ye, The Queen your mother rounds apace. We shall Present our services to a fine new prince One of these days, and then you'd wanton with us If we would have you.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 7)
She is spread of late Into a goodly bulk. Good time encounter her!(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 8)
What wisdom stirs amongst you?--Come, sir, now am for you again.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 9)
Pray you sit by us, And tell 's a tale.  Merry or sad shall 't be?(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 10)
As merry as you will.   sad tale's best for winter.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 11)
have one Of sprites and goblins.  Let's have that, good sir.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 12)
Come on, sit down. Come on, and do your best To fright me with your sprites.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 13)
You're powerful at it.   There was a man--  Nay, come sit down, then on.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 14)
Dwelt by a churchyard. will tell it softly, Yond crickets shall not hear it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 15)
Come on then, and give 't me in mine ear.        Was he met there?(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 16)
His train? Camillo with him?   Behind the tuft of pines met them.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 17)
Never Saw men scour so on their way. eyed them Even to their ships.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 18)
How blest am In my just censure, in my true opinion!(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 19)
Alack, for lesser knowledge! How accursed In being so blest!(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 20)
There may be in the cup spider steeped, and one may drink, depart, And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge Is not infected; but if one present Th' abhorred ingredient to his eye, make known How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides, With violent hefts.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 21)
have drunk, and seen the spider. Camillo was his help in this, his pander.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 22)
There is a plot against my life, my crown. All's true that is mistrusted.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 23)
That false villain Whom employed was pre-employed by him.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 24)
He has discovered my design, and Remain a pinched thing, yea, a very trick For them to play at will.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 25)
How came the posterns So easily open?  By his great authority, Which often hath no less prevailed than so On your command.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 26)
know 't too well. Give me the boy. am glad you did not nurse him.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 27)
Though he does bear some signs of me, yet you Have too much blood in him.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 28)
What is this? Sport?   Bear the boy hence. He shall not come about her.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 29)
Away with him, and let her sport herself With that she's big with,  for 'tis Polixenes Has made thee swell thus.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 30)
But I'd say he had not, And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying, Howe'er you lean to th' nayward.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 31)
You, my lords, Look on her, mark her well. Be but about To say "She is a goodly lady," and The justice of your hearts will thereto add "'Tis pity she's not honest, honorable.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 32)
" Praise her but for this her without-door form, Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight The shrug, the "hum," or "ha," these petty brands That calumny doth use--O, am out, That mercy does, for calumny will sear Virtue itself--these shrugs, these "hum"s and "ha"s, When you have said she's goodly, come between Ere you can say she's honest.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 33)
But be 't known, From him that has most cause to grieve it should be, She's an adult'ress.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 34)
Should a villain say so, The most replenished villain in the world, He were as much more villain.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 35)
You, my lord, Do but mistake.  You have mistook, my lady, Polixenes for Leontes.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 36)
thou thing, Which I'll not call a creature of thy place Lest barbarism, making me the precedent, Should a like language use to all degrees, And mannerly distinguishment leave out Betwixt the prince and beggar.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 37)
--I have said She's an adult'ress; have said with whom.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 38)
More, she's a traitor, and Camillo is federary with her, and one that knows What she should shame to know herself But with her most vile principal: that she's bed-swerver, even as bad as those That vulgars give bold'st titles; ay, and privy To this their late escape.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 39)
No, by my life, Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you, When you shall come to clearer knowledge, that You thus have published me!(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 40)
Gentle my lord, You scarce can right me throughly then to say You did mistake.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 41)
No. If mistake In those foundations which build upon, The center is not big enough to bear schoolboy's top.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 42)
--Away with her to prison. He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty But that he speaks.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 43)
There's some ill planet reigns. must be patient till the heavens look With an aspect more favorable.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 44)
Good my lords, am not prone to weeping, as our sex Commonly are, the want of which vain dew Perchance shall dry your pities.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 45)
But have That honorable grief lodged here which burns Worse than tears drown.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 46)
Beseech you all, my lords, With thoughts so qualified as your charities Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so The King's will be performed.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 47)
Shall be heard?   Who is 't that goes with me? Beseech your Highness My women may be with me, for you see My plight requires it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 48)
--Do not weep, good fools; There is no cause. When you shall know your mistress Has deserved prison, then abound in tears As come out.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 49)
This action now go on Is for my better grace.--Adieu, my lord.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 50)
never wished to see you sorry; now trust shall.--My women, come; you have leave.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 51)
Go, do our bidding. Hence!    Beseech your Highness, call the Queen again.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 52)
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice Prove violence, in the which three great ones suffer: Yourself, your queen, your son.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 53)
For her, my lord, dare my life lay down--and will do 't, sir, Please you t' accept it--that the Queen is spotless th' eyes of heaven, and to you--I mean In this which you accuse her.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 54)
If it prove She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where lodge my wife.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 55)
I'll go in couples with her; Than when feel and see her, no farther trust her.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 56)
For every inch of woman in the world, Ay, every dram of woman's flesh, is false, If she be.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 57)
Hold your peaces.  Good my lord--   It is for you we speak, not for ourselves.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 58)
You are abused, and by some putter-on That will be damned for 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 59)
Would knew the villain! would land-damn him. Be she honor-flawed, have three daughters--the eldest is eleven; The second and the third, nine and some five; If this prove true, they'll pay for 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 60)
By mine honor, I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see To bring false generations.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 61)
They are co-heirs, And had rather glib myself than they Should not produce fair issue.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 62)
Cease. No more. You smell this business with a sense as cold As is a dead man's nose.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 63)
But do see 't and feel 't, As you feel doing thus, and see withal The instruments that feel.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 64)
If it be so, We need no grave to bury honesty. There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten Of the whole dungy Earth.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 65)
What? Lack credit?   had rather you did lack than my lord, Upon this ground.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 66)
And more it would content me To have her honor true than your suspicion, Be blamed for 't how you might.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 67)
Why, what need we Commune with you of this, but rather follow Our forceful instigation?(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 68)
Our prerogative Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness Imparts this, which if you--or stupefied Or seeming so in skill--cannot or will not Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves We need no more of your advice.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 69)
The matter, The loss, the gain, the ord'ring on 't is all Properly ours.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 70)
And wish, my liege, You had only in your silent judgment tried it, Without more overture.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 71)
How could that be? Either thou art most ignorant by age, Or thou wert born a fool.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 72)
Camillo's flight, Added to their familiarity-- Which was as gross as ever touched conjecture, That lacked sight only, naught for approbation But only seeing, all other circumstances Made up to th' deed--doth push on this proceeding.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 73)
Yet, for a greater confirmation-- For in an act of this importance 'twere Most piteous to be wild--I have dispatched in post To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple, Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know Of stuffed sufficiency.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 74)
Now from the oracle They will bring all, whose spiritual counsel had Shall stop or spur me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 75)
Have done well?  Well done, my lord.   Though am satisfied and need no more Than what know, yet shall the oracle Give rest to th' minds of others, such as he Whose ignorant credulity will not Come up to th' truth.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 76)
So have we thought it good From our free person she should be confined, Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence Be left her to perform.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 77)
Come, follow us. We are to speak in public, for this business Will raise us all.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 78)
To laughter, as take it, If the good truth were known.(The Winter's Tale, Act 0, Scene 79)
2        The keeper of the prison, call to him. Let him have knowledge who am.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 0)
Good lady, No court in Europe is too good for thee.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 1)
What dost thou then in prison?    Now, good sir, You know me, do you not?(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 2)
For a worthy lady And one who much honor.  Pray you then, Conduct me to the Queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 3)
may not, madam. To the contrary have express commandment.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 4)
Here's ado, to lock up honesty and honor from Th' access of gentle visitors.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 5)
Is 't lawful, pray you, To see her women? Any of them?(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 6)
Emilia?  So please you, madam, To put apart these your attendants, Shall bring Emilia forth.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 7)
pray now, call her.-- Withdraw yourselves.    And, madam, must be present at your conference.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 8)
Well, be 't so, prithee. Here's such ado to make no stain a stain As passes coloring.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 9)
Dear gentlewoman, How fares our gracious lady?(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 10)
As well as one so great and so forlorn May hold together.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 11)
On her frights and griefs, Which never tender lady hath borne greater, She is something before her time delivered.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 12)
boy?  daughter, and a goodly babe, Lusty and like to live.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 13)
The Queen receives Much comfort in 't, says "My poor prisoner, am innocent as you.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 14)
"  dare be sworn. These dangerous unsafe lunes i' th' King, beshrew them!(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 15)
He must be told on 't, and he shall. The office Becomes a woman best.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 16)
I'll take 't upon me. If prove honey-mouthed, let my tongue blister And never to my red-looked anger be The trumpet anymore.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 17)
Pray you, Emilia, Commend my best obedience to the Queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 18)
If she dares trust me with her little babe, I'll show 't the King and undertake to be Her advocate to th' loud'st We do not know How he may soften at the sight o' th' child.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 19)
The silence often of pure innocence Persuades when speaking fails.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 20)
Most worthy madam, Your honor and your goodness is so evident That your free undertaking cannot miss thriving issue.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 21)
There is no lady living So meet for this great errand.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 22)
Please your Ladyship To visit the next room, I'll presently Acquaint the Queen of your most noble offer, Who but today hammered of this design, But durst not tempt a minister of honor Lest she should be denied.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 23)
Tell her, Emilia, I'll use that tongue have. If wit flow from 't As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted shall do good.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 24)
Now be you blest for it! I'll to the Queen. Please you come something nearer.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 25)
Madam, if 't please the Queen to send the babe, know not what shall incur to pass it, Having no warrant.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 26)
You need not fear it, sir. This child was prisoner to the womb, and is By law and process of great nature thence Freed and enfranchised, not a party to The anger of the King, nor guilty of, If any be, the trespass of the Queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 27)
do believe it.   Do not you fear. Upon mine honor, Will stand betwixt you and danger.(The Winter's Tale, Act 1, Scene 28)
Nor night nor day no rest. It is but weakness To bear the matter thus, mere weakness.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 0)
If The cause were not in being--part o' th' cause, She th' adult'ress, for the harlot king Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank And level of my brain, plot-proof.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 1)
But she can hook to me. Say that she were gone, Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest Might come to me again.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 2)
--Who's there?     My lord.  How does the boy?  He took good rest tonight.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 3)
'Tis hoped His sickness is discharged.  To see his nobleness, Conceiving the dishonor of his mother.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 4)
He straight declined, drooped, took it deeply, Fastened and fixed the shame on 't in himself, Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep, And downright languished.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 5)
Leave me solely. Go, See how he fares. Fie, fie, no thought of him.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 6)
The very thought of my revenges that way Recoil upon me--in himself too mighty, And in his parties, his alliance.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 7)
Let him be Until a time may serve. For present vengeance, Take it on her.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 8)
Camillo and Polixenes Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 9)
They should not laugh if could reach them, nor Shall she within my power.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 10)
You must not enter.   Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 11)
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas, Than the Queen's life?(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 12)
gracious innocent soul, More free than he is jealous.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 13)
That's enough.   Madam, he hath not slept tonight, commanded None should come at him.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 14)
Not so hot, good sir. come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you That creep like shadows by him and do sigh At each his needless heavings, such as you Nourish the cause of his awaking.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 15)
Do come with words as medicinal as true, Honest as either, to purge him of that humor That presses him from sleep.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 16)
What noise there, ho?   No noise, my lord, but needful conference About some gossips for your Highness.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 17)
How?-- Away with that audacious lady. Antigonus, charged thee that she should not come about me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 18)
knew she would.  told her so, my lord, On your displeasure's peril and on mine, She should not visit you.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 19)
What, canst not rule her?   From all dishonesty he can.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 20)
In this, Unless he take the course that you have done-- Commit me for committing honor--trust it, He shall not rule me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 21)
La you now, you hear. When she will take the rein let her run, But she'll not stumble.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 22)
Good my liege, come-- And beseech you hear me, who professes Myself your loyal servant, your physician, Your most obedient counselor, yet that dares Less appear so in comforting your evils Than such as most seem yours--I say come From your good queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 23)
Good queen?   Good queen, my lord, good queen, say "good queen," And would by combat make her good, so were man, the worst about you.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 24)
Force her hence.   Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes First hand me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 25)
On mine own accord I'll off, But first I'll do my errand.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 26)
--The good queen, For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter-- Here 'tis--commends it to your blessing.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 27)
Out! mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 28)
most intelligencing bawd.  Not so. am as ignorant in that as you In so entitling me, and no less honest Than you are mad--which is enough, I'll warrant, As this world goes, to pass for honest.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 29)
Traitors, Will you not push her out?  Give her the bastard, Thou dotard; thou art woman-tired, unroosted By thy Dame Partlet here.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 30)
Take up the bastard, Take 't up, say. Give 't to thy crone.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 31)
Forever Unvenerable be thy hands if thou Tak'st up the Princess by that forced baseness Which he has put upon 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 32)
He dreads his wife.   So would you did. Then 'twere past all doubt You'd call your children yours.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 33)
nest of traitors!   am none, by this good light.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 34)
Nor nor any But one that's here, and that's himself.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 35)
For he The sacred honor of himself, his queen's, His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander, Whose sting is sharper than the sword's; and will not-- For, as the case now stands, it is a curse He cannot be compelled to 't--once remove The root of his opinion, which is rotten As ever oak or stone was sound.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 36)
callet Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband And now baits me!(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 37)
This brat is none of mine. It is the issue of Polixenes.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 38)
Hence with it, and together with the dam Commit them to the fire.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 39)
It is yours, And, might we lay th' old proverb to your charge, So like you 'tis the worse.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 40)
--Behold, my lords, Although the print be little, the whole matter And copy of the father--eye, nose, lip, The trick of 's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley, The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek, his smiles, The very mold and frame of hand, nail, finger.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 41)
And thou, good goddess Nature, which hast made it So like to him that got it, if thou hast The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colors No yellow in 't, lest she suspect, as he does, Her children not her husband's.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 42)
gross hag!-- And, losel, thou art worthy to be hanged That wilt not stay her tongue.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 43)
Hang all the husbands That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself Hardly one subject.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 44)
Once more, take her hence.   most unworthy and unnatural lord Can do no more.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 45)
I'll ha' thee burnt.  care not. It is an heretic that makes the fire, Not she which burns in 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 46)
I'll not call you tyrant; But this most cruel usage of your queen, Not able to produce more accusation Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savors Of tyranny, and will ignoble make you, Yea, scandalous to the world.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 47)
On your allegiance, Out of the chamber with her!(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 48)
Were a tyrant, Where were her life? She durst not call me so If she did know me one.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 49)
Away with her!   pray you do not push me; I'll be gone.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 50)
-- Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours. Jove send her better guiding spirit.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 51)
--What needs these hands? You that are thus so tender o'er his follies Will never do him good, not one of you.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 52)
So, so. Farewell, we are gone.   Thou, traitor, hast set on thy wife to this.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 53)
My child? Away with 't! Even thou, that hast heart so tender o'er it, take it hence, And see it instantly consumed with fire.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 54)
Even thou, and none but thou. Take it up straight.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 55)
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done, And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life, With what thou else call'st thine.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 56)
If thou refuse And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 57)
The bastard brains with these my proper hands Shall dash out.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 58)
Go, take it to the fire, For thou sett'st on thy wife.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 59)
did not, sir. These lords, my noble fellows, if they please, Can clear me in 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 60)
We can, my royal liege. He is not guilty of her coming hither.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 61)
You're liars all.   Beseech your Highness, give us better credit.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 62)
We have always truly served you, and beseech So to esteem of us.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 63)
And on our knees we beg, As recompense of our dear services Past and to come, that you do change this purpose, Which being so horrible, so bloody, must Lead on to some foul issue.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 64)
We all kneel.   am a feather for each wind that blows.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 65)
Shall live on to see this bastard kneel And call me father?(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 66)
Better burn it now Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 67)
It shall not neither.  You, sir, come you hither, You that have been so tenderly officious With Lady Margery, your midwife there, To save this bastard's life--for 'tis a bastard, So sure as this beard's gray.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 68)
What will you adventure To save this brat's life?(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 69)
Anything, my lord, That my ability may undergo And nobleness impose.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 70)
At least thus much: I'll pawn the little blood which have left To save the innocent.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 71)
Anything possible.   It shall be possible. Swear by this sword Thou wilt perform my bidding.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 72)
will, my lord.   Mark, and perform it, seest thou; for the fail Of any point in 't shall not only be Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife, Whom for this time we pardon.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 73)
We enjoin thee, As thou art liegeman to us, that thou carry This female bastard hence, and that thou bear it To some remote and desert place quite out Of our dominions, and that there thou leave it, Without more mercy, to it own protection And favor of the climate.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 74)
As by strange fortune It came to us, do in justice charge thee, On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture, That thou commend it strangely to some place Where chance may nurse or end it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 75)
Take it up.   swear to do this, though a present death Had been more merciful.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 76)
--Come on, poor babe.  Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens To be thy nurses!(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 77)
Wolves and bears, they say, Casting their savageness aside, have done Like offices of pity.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 78)
Sir, be prosperous In more than this deed does require.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 79)
--And blessing Against this cruelty fight on thy side, Poor thing, condemned to loss.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 80)
No, I'll not rear Another's issue.     Please your Highness, posts From those you sent to th' oracle are come An hour since.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 81)
Cleomenes and Dion, Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed, Hasting to th' court.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 82)
So please you, sir, their speed Hath been beyond account.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 83)
Twenty-three days They have been absent. 'Tis good speed, foretells The great Apollo suddenly will have The truth of this appear.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 84)
Prepare you, lords. Summon a session, that we may arraign Our most disloyal lady; for, as she hath Been publicly accused, so shall she have just and open trial.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 85)
While she lives, My heart will be a burden to me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 2, Scene 86)
The climate's delicate, the air most sweet, Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing The common praise it bears.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 0)
shall report, For most it caught me, the celestial habits-- Methinks so should term them--and the reverence Of the grave wearers.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 1)
the sacrifice, How ceremonious, solemn, and unearthly It was i' th' off'ring!(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 2)
But of all, the burst And the ear-deaf'ning voice o' th' oracle, Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense That was nothing.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 3)
If th' event o' th' journey Prove as successful to the Queen--O, be 't so!(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 4)
-- As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy, The time is worth the use on 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 5)
Great Apollo Turn all to th' best! These proclamations, So forcing faults upon Hermione, little like.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 6)
The violent carriage of it Will clear or end the business when the oracle, Thus by Apollo's great divine sealed up, Shall the contents discover.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 7)
Something rare Even then will rush to knowledge. Go.(The Winter's Tale, Act 15, Scene 8)
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce, Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried The daughter of a king, our wife, and one Of us too much beloved.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 0)
Let us be cleared Of being tyrannous, since we so openly Proceed in justice, which shall have due course Even to the guilt or the purgation.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 1)
Produce the prisoner.   It is his Highness' pleasure that the Queen Appear in person here in court.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 2)
Silence!  Read the indictment.  Hermione, queen to the worthy Leontes, King of Sicilia, thou art here accused and arraigned of high treason, in committing adultery with Polixenes, King of Bohemia, and conspiring with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign lord the King, thy royal husband; the pretense whereof being by circumstances partly laid open, thou, Hermione, contrary to the faith and allegiance of a true subject, didst counsel and aid them, for their better safety, to fly away by night.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 3)
Since what am to say must be but that Which contradicts my accusation, and The testimony on my part no other But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me To say "Not guilty.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 4)
" Mine integrity, Being counted falsehood, shall, as express it, Be so received.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 5)
But thus: if powers divine Behold our human actions, as they do, doubt not then but innocence shall make False accusation blush and tyranny Tremble at patience.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 6)
You, my lord, best know, Whom least will seem to do so, my past life Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true, As am now unhappy; which is more Than history can pattern, though devised And played to take spectators.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 7)
For behold me, fellow of the royal bed, which owe moiety of the throne, a great king's daughter, The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing To prate and talk for life and honor fore Who please to come and hear.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 8)
For life, prize it As weigh grief, which would spare.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 9)
For honor, 'Tis a derivative from me to mine, And only that stand for.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 10)
appeal To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes Came to your court, how was in your grace, How merited to be so; since he came, With what encounter so uncurrent Have strained t' appear thus; if one jot beyond The bound of honor, or in act or will That way inclining, hardened be the hearts Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin Cry fie upon my grave.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 11)
ne'er heard yet That any of these bolder vices wanted Less impudence to gainsay what they did Than to perform it first.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 12)
That's true enough, Though 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 13)
You will not own it.  More than mistress of Which comes to me in name of fault, must not At all acknowledge.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 14)
For Polixenes, With whom am accused, do confess loved him as in honor he required, With such a kind of love as might become lady like me, with a love even such, So and no other, as yourself commanded, Which not to have done, think, had been in me Both disobedience and ingratitude To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke, Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely That it was yours.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 15)
Now, for conspiracy, know not how it tastes, though it be dished For me to try how.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 16)
All know of it Is that Camillo was an honest man; And why he left your court, the gods themselves, Wotting no more than are ignorant.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 17)
You knew of his departure, as you know What you have underta'en to do in 's absence.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 18)
Sir, You speak a language that understand not. My life stands in the level of your dreams, Which I'll lay down.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 19)
Your actions are my dreams. You had a bastard by Polixenes, And but dreamed it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 20)
As you were past all shame-- Those of your fact are so--so past all truth, Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself, No father owning it--which is indeed More criminal in thee than it--so thou Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage Look for no less than death.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 21)
Sir, spare your threats. The bug which you would fright me with seek.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 22)
To me can life be no commodity. The crown and comfort of my life, your favor, do give lost, for do feel it gone, But know not how it went.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 23)
My second joy And first fruits of my body, from his presence am barred like one infectious.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 24)
My third comfort, Starred most unluckily, is from my breast, The innocent milk in it most innocent mouth, Haled out to murder; myself on every post Proclaimed a strumpet; with immodest hatred The childbed privilege denied, which longs To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried Here to this place, i' th' open air, before have got strength of limit.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 25)
Now, my liege, Tell me what blessings have here alive, That should fear to die?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 26)
Therefore proceed. But yet hear this (mistake me not: no life, prize it not a straw, but for mine honor, Which would free), if shall be condemned Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else But what your jealousies awake, tell you 'Tis rigor, and not law.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 27)
Your Honors all, do refer me to the oracle. Apollo be my judge.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 28)
This your request Is altogether just. Therefore bring forth, And in Apollo's name, his oracle.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 29)
The Emperor of Russia was my father. that he were alive and here beholding His daughter's trial, that he did but see The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes Of pity, not revenge.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 30)
You here shall swear upon this sword of justice That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought This sealed-up oracle, by the hand delivered Of great Apollo's priest, and that since then You have not dared to break the holy seal Nor read the secrets in 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 31)
All this we swear.  Break up the seals and read.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 32)
Hermione is chaste, Polixenes blameless, Camillo a true subject, Leontes a jealous tyrant, his innocent babe truly begotten; and the King shall live without an heir if that which is lost be not found.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 33)
Now blessed be the great Apollo!  Praised!  Hast thou read truth?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 34)
Ay, my lord, even so as it is here set down.   There is no truth at all i' th' oracle.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 35)
The sessions shall proceed. This is mere falsehood.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 36)
My lord the King, the King!  What is the business?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 37)
sir, shall be hated to report it. The Prince your son, with mere conceit and fear Of the Queen's speed, is gone.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 38)
How? Gone?  Is dead.   Apollo's angry, and the heavens themselves Do strike at my injustice.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 39)
How now there?   This news is mortal to the Queen.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 40)
Look down And see what death is doing.  Take her hence.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 41)
Her heart is but o'ercharged. She will recover. have too much believed mine own suspicion.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 42)
Beseech you, tenderly apply to her Some remedies for life.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 43)
Apollo, pardon My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 44)
I'll reconcile me to Polixenes, New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo, Whom proclaim a man of truth, of mercy; For, being transported by my jealousies To bloody thoughts and to revenge, chose Camillo for the minister to poison My friend Polixenes, which had been done But that the good mind of Camillo tardied My swift command, though with death and with Reward did threaten and encourage him, Not doing it and being done.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 45)
He, most humane And filled with honor, to my kingly guest Unclasped my practice, quit his fortunes here, Which you knew great, and to the hazard Of all incertainties himself commended, No richer than his honor.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 46)
How he glisters Through my rust, and how his piety Does my deeds make the blacker!(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 47)
Woe the while! cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it, Break too!(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 48)
What fit is this, good lady?   What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 49)
What wheels, racks, fires? What flaying? Boiling In leads or oils?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 50)
What old or newer torture Must receive, whose every word deserves To taste of thy most worst?(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 51)
Thy tyranny, Together working with thy jealousies, Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle For girls of nine, think what they have done, And then run mad indeed, stark mad, for all Thy bygone fooleries were but spices of it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 52)
That thou betrayedst Polixenes, 'twas nothing; That did but show thee of a fool, inconstant And damnable ingrateful.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 53)
Nor was 't much Thou wouldst have poisoned good Camillo's honor, To have him kill a king: poor trespasses, More monstrous standing by, whereof reckon The casting forth to crows thy baby daughter To be or none or little, though a devil Would have shed water out of fire ere done 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 54)
Nor is 't directly laid to thee the death Of the young prince, whose honorable thoughts, Thoughts high for one so tender, cleft the heart That could conceive a gross and foolish sire Blemished his gracious dam.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 55)
This is not, no, Laid to thy answer. But the last--O lords, When have said, cry woe!(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 56)
--the Queen, the Queen, The sweet'st, dear'st creature's dead, and vengeance for 't Not dropped down yet.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 57)
The higher powers forbid!   say she's dead. I'll swear 't.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 58)
If word nor oath Prevail not, go and see. If you can bring Tincture or luster in her lip, her eye, Heat outwardly or breath within, I'll serve you As would do the gods.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 59)
--But, thou tyrant, Do not repent these things, for they are heavier Than all thy woes can stir.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 60)
Therefore betake thee To nothing but despair. thousand knees Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting, Upon a barren mountain, and still winter In storm perpetual, could not move the gods To look that way thou wert.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 61)
Go on, go on. Thou canst not speak too much. have deserved All tongues to talk their bitt'rest.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 62)
Say no more. Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault th' boldness of your speech.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 63)
am sorry for 't. All faults make, when shall come to know them, do repent.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 64)
Alas, have showed too much The rashness of a woman.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 65)
He is touched To th' noble heart.--What's gone and what's past help Should be past grief.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 66)
Do not receive affliction At my petition. beseech you, rather Let me be punished, that have minded you Of what you should forget.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 67)
Now, good my liege, Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 68)
The love bore your queen--lo, fool again!-- I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 69)
I'll not remember you of my own lord, Who is lost too.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 70)
Take your patience to you, And I'll say nothing.  Thou didst speak but well When most the truth, which receive much better Than to be pitied of thee.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 71)
Prithee, bring me To the dead bodies of my queen and son.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 72)
One grave shall be for both. Upon them shall The causes of their death appear, unto Our shame perpetual.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 73)
Once a day I'll visit The chapel where they lie, and tears shed there Shall be my recreation.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 74)
So long as nature Will bear up with this exercise, so long daily vow to use it.(The Winter's Tale, Act 16, Scene 75)
